---
title: Overview
description: An introduction to zksync2-java and its features.
tags: ["zksync", "java", "sdk", "blockchain", "ethereum"]
links:
  - label: GitHub
    to: https://github.com/zksync-sdk/zksync2-java
    icon: simple-icons:github
    target: _blank
---

The `zksync2-java` is a powerful tool designed for developers working with the Ethereum blockchain.

## What is `zksync2-java`?

The `zksync2-java` library is a Java SDK designed to facilitate interactions with the ZKsync Era network. It provides a
set of tools and methods that allow developers to:

- Connect to the ZKsync network using a Web3 provider.
- Estimate transaction fees and gas usage.
- Interact with smart contracts deployed on ZKsync.
- Retrieve detailed information about transactions, blocks, and accounts.
- Utilize ZKsync-specific functionalities such as L1 to L2 transactions, bridge contracts, and more.

## Key features

### Seamless integration with web3j

The `zksync2-java` library builds upon the `web3j` library, ensuring that developers familiar with Web3j can easily
transition to using ZKsync-specific features. It supports all the standard Web3j functionalities while adding
additional methods tailored to the ZKsync Era.

### ZkSync-specific methods

The library includes a variety of methods specific to ZKsync, such as:

- Estimating fees for transactions (`estimateFee`).
- Calculating gas usage for transactions (`estimateGas`, `estimateGasL1`).
- Retrieving account balances and block details.
- Managing transactions between Layer 1 (L1) and Layer 2 (L2).
- Accessing bridge contracts and batch details.

### Ease of use

The `zksync2-java` library is designed with simplicity in mind, offering straightforward APIs and
documentation to help developers get started quickly and efficiently.

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
To use the `zksync2-java`, visit the [Getting started](/java/guides) page.
::
