---
title: Getting Started
description: Learn how to use the powerful ZKsync CLI tool for local development.
---

The ZKsync CLI is a powerful tool designed to simplify the setup, development, testing, and deployment of contracts on ZKsync.
It also provides a way to scaffold dApps using templates using various frontend and web3 libraries.
ZKsync CLI is published on npm as [`zksync-cli`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/zksync-cli).
Commands are invoked using `zksync-cli` in the terminal.

## Dependencies

To install ZKsync CLI on your local system, you will need Node.js.
ZKsync CLI requires Node.js to run commands on your local environment.

[Download and install Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download) which will include the `npm` and `npx` commands.
You can execute ZKsync CLI commands without having to install the package using the `npx` command.
Our guides will assume you to install the ZKsync CLI globally using `npm install`.

### Optional dependencies

If you wish to use ZKsync CLI to manage and run a ZKsync environment locally such as ZKsync nodes,
Block Explorer, Wallet, and Bridge, you will need to install Docker.
The Docker Desktop provides an easy to use application to manage Docker images and containers.

[Download and install Docker](https://www.docker.com/get-started/) which will include a desktop GUI
to manage Docker containers and images.

## Install ZKsync CLI
To install the ZKsync CLI, open up a terminal window and run the following command:

```sh
npm install -g zksync-cli
```

### Update ZKsync CLI

To update your installed package of ZKsync CLI, run the following command:

```sh
npm update -g zksync-cli
```

## Available Commands

To learn more about the available commands in ZKsync CLI, see the [CLI reference](/zksync-era/tooling/zksync-cli/reference).

## Further Assistance

Need help? Join our [GitHub Discussions](%%zk_git_repo_zksync-developers%%/discussions/)
to ask questions, share your experiences, and connect with the ZKsync community.

## Source Code

The [ZKsync CLI project](%%zk_git_repo_zksync-cli%%)
is open-source and available on GitHub under the MIT License.
Feel free to contribute, report issues, or suggest new features to help us improve the tool for everyone.
