---

title: L2VoidSigner
description: A class extending ethers.VoidSigner for Layer 2 operations
tags: ["Ethereum", "Blockchain", "L2", "Signer"]

---

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
Methods that are not listed below do not work since they require signing the transaction with the key!
::

A `L2VoidSigner` is an extension of the `ethers.VoidSigner` class providing only L2 (Layer 2) operations.

### Properties

- `provider: Provider`
  - The provider instance connected to the L2 network.

### Methods

#### `connect(provider: Provider): L2VoidSigner`

Connects the `L2VoidSigner` to the L2 network using the specified provider.

##### Parameters

- `provider: Provider` - The provider instance for connecting to an L2 network.

##### Returns

- `L2VoidSigner` - A new instance of `L2VoidSigner` connected to the specified provider.

##### Example

```javascript
import { Provider, L2VoidSigner, types } from "zksync-ethers";

const provider = Provider.getDefaultProvider(types.Network.Sepolia);

let signer = new L2VoidSigner("<ADDRESS>");
signer = signer.connect(provider);
```

#### `populateTransaction(tx: TransactionRequest): Promise<TransactionLike>`

Populates a transaction with the necessary fields. The only required fields are `transaction.to` and
either `transaction.data` or `transaction.value` (or both if the method is payable). Other fields will be automatically filled.

##### Parameters

- `tx: TransactionRequest` - The transaction request to be populated.

##### Returns

- `Promise<TransactionLike>` - A promise that resolves to a populated transaction.

##### Example

```javascript
import { Provider, L2VoidSigner, Wallet, types, utils } from "zksync-ethers";

const provider = Provider.getDefaultProvider(types.Network.Sepolia);
const signer = new L2VoidSigner("<ADDRESS>", provider);

const populatedTx = await signer.populateTransaction({
  to: Wallet.createRandom().address,
  value: 7_000_000n,
  maxFeePerGas: 3_500_000_000n,
  maxPriorityFeePerGas: 2_000_000_000n,
  customData: {
    gasPerPubdata: utils.DEFAULT_GAS_PER_PUBDATA_LIMIT,
    factoryDeps: [],
  },
});
```

### Private methods

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
These methods are used internally and are not intended for direct use by consumers of the class.
::

#### `_signerL2(): L2VoidSigner`

Returns the current `L2VoidSigner` instance.

##### Returns

- `L2VoidSigner` - The current instance of `L2VoidSigner`.

#### `_providerL2(): Provider`

Returns the provider connected to the L2 network.

##### Returns

- `Provider` - The provider instance connected to the L2 network.
