---
title: FAQs
description: Frequently asked questions about ZKsync SSO.
---

## What login options are supported?

Currently, only login with passkeys is supported in ZKsync SSO.
We are working on adding support for logging in with an Externally Owned Account (EOA) in the future.

## How secure is ZKsync SSO?

ZKsync SSO uses passkey authentication method to ensure that your account remains secure.
Private keys never leave your device, and biometric authentication adds an extra layer of security.

## Is ZKsync SSO free to integrate?

Yes, developers can integrate it into their applications without any licensing fees.

## Do users need to worry about transaction fees?

There are three points at which a transaction fee may apply:

**Account Creation and Recovery Setup:** Free for users.<br>
The first 1 million users can create accounts and set up recovery options without paying transaction fees, as ZKsync sponsors these fees.

**Session Creation:** When creating application sessions, users pay a transaction fee (roughly equivalent to an ERC-20 transfer fee on ZKsync Era).
Apps can sponsor these fees using a paymaster.

**Transaction Fees:** Users pay regular low transaction fees when using ZKsync Era. This is the case regardless of whether users use ZKsync SSO or not.
Apps can sponsor these fees using a paymaster, allowing users to transact without incurring any costs.

## How do I integrate ZKsync SSO into my application?

Developers can integrate ZKsync SSO by using the available SDKs for web applications. Mobile SDKs for iOS and Android are coming soon.
Refer to the [Getting Started Guide](/zksync-era/unique-features/zksync-sso/getting-started) for detailed instructions.

## Where can I find the deployed SSO contract addresses?

The deployed contract addresses for ZKsync Sepolia testnet are available in the [ZKsync SSO repository](https://github.com/matter-labs/zksync-sso/blob/main/packages/auth-server/stores/era-sepolia.json).

## Have more questions?

Join our [GitHub Discussions](%%zk_git_repo_zksync-developers%%/discussions/)
to ask questions, share your experiences, and connect with the ZKsync community.
