---
title: Troubleshooting
description: Troubleshooting guide for ZKsync SDKs
tags: ["zksync", "sdks", "zksync era sdk", "ethereum", "era network", "troubleshooting"]
navigation: false
---

Whether you’re facing integration challenges, encountering unexpected errors, or need clarity on certain
functionalities, here are detailed solutions and best practices to ensure a smooth development experience.

### JavaScript SDK

If you encounter issues using the JavaScript SDK during the installation, refer to the troubleshooting steps:

1. **Network selection**: Ensure you are using the Layer 2 (L2) network instead of Layer 1 (L1) Sepolia. The
correct endpoint for the L2 network is: [ZKsync Sepolia Explorer](%%zk_testnet_rpc_url%%).

2. **Transaction hash and block tag**: Use the correct transaction hash and block tag when fetching transaction details.

### Python

1. **Unable to Install the ZKsync Python SDK**

   - Ensure you have Python 3.8 or higher installed. You can download the latest version from the [Python website](https://www.python.org/downloads/).
   - Make sure you have pip version 23.1.2 or higher. You can upgrade pip by running:

     ```shell
     pip install --upgrade pip
     ```

   - Run the installation command:

     ```shell
     pip install zksync2
     ```

2. **ImportError: No module named 'zksync2'**

   - Verify the installation by running:

     ```shell
     pip show zksync2
     ```

     :::callout
     If it is not installed, follow the installation steps in number 1.
     :::
   - Ensure your Python script is using the correct Python environment where `zksync2` is installed.

3. **Connection Error When Connecting to ZKsync Era**

   - Check your internet connection.
   - Ensure you are using the correct operator node endpoint.

     ```python
     from zksync2.module.module_builder import ZkSyncBuilder

     sdk = ZkSyncBuilder.build("https://sepolia.era.zksync.dev")
     ```

   - Verify the endpoint URL is correct and the service is operational.

4. **AttributeError: 'module' object has no attribute 'zksync'**

   - Make sure you are using the correct import statements and setup:

     ```python
     from zksync2.module.module_builder import ZkSyncBuilder

     sdk = ZkSyncBuilder.build("https://sepolia.era.zksync.dev")
     ```

   - Ensure you are accessing the attributes correctly.

     ```python
     chain_id = sdk.zksync.chain_id
     ```

5. **Transaction Rejection or Failure**

   - Verify that your transaction parameters are correct and meet all the required fields.
   - Ensure your account has sufficient funds for the transaction.
   - Check the gas limit and gas price to ensure they are set appropriately.
   - Review any error messages returned by the transaction to identify specific issues.

6. **Incorrect or Unexpected Response Data**

   - Double-check the method you are calling and the parameters you are passing.
   - Ensure that you are handling the response data correctly in your script.
   - Refer to the official documentation and examples to confirm correct usage of the SDK methods.
