---
title: Hello zkSync!
description: Learn to deploy smart contracts efficiently in the zkSync environment.
---

Welcome to the Quickstart Guide for deploying smart contracts on zkSync! In this guide, we'll walk you through the process
of creating and deploying a simple smart contract that creates a crowdfunding campaign for Zeek.

:check-icon Initializing a new project with zkSync-cli.

:check-icon Crafting a smart contract to fund Zeek's latest adventure.

:check-icon Deploying the contract on the zkSync Era using your choice of Hardhat or Foundry.

Let's dive in and start your developer journey on zkSync!

## Framework selection

Select the framework you want to get started using zkSync Era with.

::content-switcher
---
items: [{
  label: 'Hardhat',
  partial: '_index/_hardhat_deploy_contract'
}, {
  label: 'Foundry',
  partial: '_index/_foundry_deploy_contract'
}]
---
::

## Takeaways

- **EVM Compatibility:** zkSync is EVM compatible and you can write smart contracts in Solidity or Vyper.
- **Development Tools:** zkSync supports your favorite development toolkit Hardhat and Foundry.
- **Custom Compilation:** Contracts deployed to zkSync are compiled using `zksolc` or `zkvyper` as
they generate a special bytecode for zkSync's ZKEVM.

## Next steps

Having successfully deployed your first contract on zkSync, you're well on your way to becoming
a proficient zkSync developer. To expand your expertise:

- **Explore Contract Factories:** Enhance your project by building a contract factory
for the `CrowdfundingCampaign` contract in the next guide. This will allow you to efficiently
manage multiple crowdfunding campaigns, each with its own unique parameters.
- **Dive Deeper into zkSync Features:** Investigate advanced zkSync features such as account abstraction,
and paymasters.
- **Join the Community:** Engage with the zkSync developer community through forums,
Discord channels, Dev Discussions, or GitHub repositories. Share your experiences, ask questions,
and collaborate on projects.
