---
title: Hello zkSync!
description: Learn to deploy smart contracts efficiently in the zkSync environment.
---

Welcome to the Quickstart Guide for deploying smart contracts on zkSync! In this series, we'll walk you through the process
of creating and deploying a simple smart contract that creates a crowdfunding campaign for Zeek. In this section you will learn the following:

:check-icon Initialize a new project with zkSync-cli.

:check-icon Craft a smart contract to fund Zeek's latest adventure.

:check-icon Deploy the contract on the zkSync Era using your choice of Hardhat or Foundry.

Let's dive in and start your developer journey on zkSync!

Select the framework you want to get started using zkSync Era with.

::content-switcher
---
items: [{
  label: 'Hardhat',
  partial: '_hello-zksync/_hardhat_deploy_contract'
}, {
  label: 'Foundry',
  partial: '_hello-zksync/_foundry_deploy_contract'
}]
---
::

## Takeaways

- **EVM Compatibility:** zkSync is EVM compatible and you can write smart contracts in Solidity or Vyper.
- **Custom Compilation:** Contracts deployed to zkSync are compiled using `zksolc` or `zkvyper` as
they generate a special bytecode for zkSync's ZKEVM.
- **Development Tools:** zkSync supports your favorite development toolkit Hardhat and Foundry.

## Next steps

Having successfully deployed your first contract on zkSync, you're well on your way to becoming
a proficient zkSync developer. To expand your expertise:

- **Explore Contract Factories:** Enhance your project by building a contract factory
for the `CrowdfundingCampaign` contract in the [next guide](/quick-start/deploy-factory). This will allow you to efficiently
manage multiple crowdfunding campaigns, each with its own unique parameters.
- **Dive Deeper into zkSync Features:** Investigate advanced zkSync features such as account abstraction,
and paymasters.
- **Join the Community:** Engage with the zkSync developer community through forums,
Discord channels, Dev Discussions, or GitHub repositories. Share your experiences, ask questions,
and collaborate on projects.
