---
title: Testing
description: Learn to test smart contracts efficiently in the zkSync environment.
---

Welcome back to our Quickstart Series, your fast-track to zkSync development! In this
third guide, we transition from deploying and managing contracts to the critical phase
of testing. This guide will walk you through the steps to ensure your `CrowdfundingCampaign`
contracts, introduced in our first guide and efficiently deployed through contract factories
in the second, work flawlessly.

:check-icon Elevating your zkSync toolkit with robust contract testing techniques.

:check-icon Crafting comprehensive tests for your `CrowdfundingCampaign` to ensure reliability and security.

:check-icon Using Hardhat or Foundry to write and run tests, ensuring your campaigns are ready.

Dive into the world of smart contract testing and solidify the foundation of your zkSync projects.

## Framework selection

Select the framework you want to get started using zkSync Era with.

::content-switcher
---
items: [{
  label: 'Hardhat',
  partial: '_testing/_hardhat_contract_testing'
}, {
  label: 'Foundry',
  partial: '_testing/_foundry_contract_testing'
}]
---
::

## Takeaways

- **EVM Compatibility:** zkSync is EVM compatible and you can write smart contracts in Solidity or Vyper.
- **Development Tools:** zkSync supports your favorite development toolkit Hardhat and Foundry.
- **Custom Compilation:** Contracts deployed to zkSync are compiled using `zksolc` or `zkvyper` as
they generate a special bytecode for zkSync's ZKEVM.

## Next steps

Having successfully deployed your first contract on zkSync, you're well on your way to becoming
a proficient zkSync developer. To expand your expertise:

- **Explore Contract Factories:** Enhance your project by building a contract factory
for the `CrowdfundingCampaign` contract in the next guide. This will allow you to efficiently
manage multiple crowdfunding campaigns, each with its own unique parameters.
- **Dive Deeper into zkSync Features:** Investigate advanced zkSync features such as account abstraction,
and paymasters.
- **Join the Community:** Engage with the zkSync developer community through forums,
Discord channels, Dev Discussions, or GitHub repositories. Share your experiences, ask questions,
and collaborate on projects.
