---
title: Upgradability
description: Learn to make smart contracts upgradeable within the zkSync ecosystem.
---

Welcome back to our Quickstart Series, the express lane to zkSync development!
In this fourth installment, we embark on a journey through contract upgradability,
an important aspect for maintaining and enhancing smart contracts over time. This guide will
lead you through the strategies and practices for making the `CrowdfundingCampaign` contract,
introduced in the first guide and brought to life in subsequent guides, **upgradeable**.

:check-icon Harnessing advanced techniques for contract upgradability in zkSync.

:check-icon Implementing upgradeable patterns for the `CrowdfundingCampaign` to ensure long-term adaptability and improvement.

:check-icon Leveraging tools and best practices in zkSync to facilitate seamless contract upgrades.

Begin to understand smart contract evolution and empower your zkSync applications with the
flexibility of upgradability.

### Select preferred upgrade mechanism

::content-switcher
---
items: [{
  label: 'Transparent',
  partial: '_upgrading/_transparent_proxy_contract_upgradability'
}, {
  label: 'Beacon',
  partial: '_upgrading/_beacon_proxy_contract_upgradability'
},
 {
  label: 'UUPS',
  partial: '_upgrading/_uups_contract_upgradability'
},]
---
::

## Takeaways and Next Steps

### Takeaways

- **Upgradability:** The guide highlights the critical aspect of smart contract upgradability, introducing techniques
for using transparent, beacon, and UUPS proxies.
This ensures your contracts remain adaptable, allowing for seamless updates to business logic or enhancements in efficiency.

- **Flexibility:** Emphasizing flexibility, the guide demonstrates how upgradable
contracts maintain continuity of state and fund security, even as underlying
functionalities evolve. This approach provides a resilient framework for your dApps to grow and adapt over time.

### Next Steps

- **Exploring Paymasters:** Dive into the next guide focused on using paymasters
with your smart contracts. Paymasters abstract gas payments in transactions,
offering new models for transaction fee management and enhancing user experience in dApps.
- **Advanced zkSync Integrations:** Explore deeper into zkSync's ecosystem by
implementing features like account abstraction and paymasters to enhance user
experience and contract flexibility.
- **Community Engagement and Contribution:** Join the vibrant zkSync community.
Participate in forums, Discord, or GitHub discussions. Sharing insights, asking queries,
and contributing can enrich the ecosystem and your understanding of zkSync.
