---
title: Paymaster
description: Learn how to write and customize your documentation.
---

WWelcome back to our Quickstart Series on mastering zkSync development! In this guide, we move beyond the basics
of smart contract deployment and the creation of contract factories to explore the innovative concept of paymasters
in the zkSync ecosystem. This guide will illuminate the power of paymasters to revolutionize transaction
fee management and enhance user experiences within your dApps.

:check-icon Delving deeper into zkSync development with the introduction of paymasters.

:check-icon Learning how paymasters can cover transaction fees for your dApp users, enhancing accessibility and user experience.

:check-icon Discovering the flexibility of fee payment with paymasters, including the ability to pay
fees in ERC20 tokens on zkSync Era, using Hardhat or Foundry.

Embark on this journey to understand how paymasters can add a new layer of functionality and user-friendliness
to your decentralized applications.

### What are Paymasters?

Paymasters in the zkSync ecosystem represent a groundbreaking approach to handling transaction fees.
They are special accounts designed to subsidize transaction costs for other accounts, potentially making
certain transactions free for end-users. This feature is particularly useful for dApp developers looking
to improve their platform's accessibility and user experience by covering transaction fees on behalf of their users.

### Built-in Paymaster Flows

Paymasters can operate under various flows, some of which may require user interaction, such as setting allowances
for token swaps. These flows enable paymasters to support a wide range of use cases, from simple fee subsidies
to more complex scenarios involving ERC20 token exchanges for transaction fees.

- **General Paymaster Flow:** This default flow requires no preliminary actions from users, allowing paymasters
to interpret transaction data as needed to cover fees.
  
- **Approval-Based Paymaster Flow:** For operations requiring user permissions, such as token allowances,
this flow provides a structured approach. It ensures that user tokens can be seamlessly exchanged for transaction
fees, subject to user-approved limits.

As we delve into paymasters, remember that while they offer enhanced flexibility for fee management, their
implementation should always prioritize security and user trust. This guide aims to equip you with the knowledge
to effectively incorporate paymasters into your zkSync projects, paving the way for more user-friendly and accessible dApps.

## Framework selection

Select the framework you want to get started using zkSync Era with.

::content-switcher
---
items: [{
  label: 'Hardhat',
  partial: '_deploy_factory/_hardhat_deploy_contract_factory'
}, {
  label: 'Foundry',
  partial: '_deploy_factory/_foundry_deploy_contract_factory'
}]
---
::

## Takeaways

- **Contract Factories:** Utilizing contract factories significantly streamlines
the deployment process, allowing for the creation of multiple instances of a
contract, like the `CrowdfundingCampaign`, with varied parameters.
- **Scalability and Management:** Contract factories offer a scalable solution to manage
numerous contract instances, enhancing project organization and efficiency.
- **Event-Driven Insights:** The `CampaignCreated` event in the factory contract provides
a transparent mechanism to track each crowdfunding campaign's deployment, useful for
off-chain monitoring and interaction.

## Next steps

With the contract factory in your zkSync development arsenal, you're set to elevate
your smart contract projects. Here's how you can further your journey:

- **Contract Testing:** Progress to the next guide focused on testing your contracts.
Ensuring the reliability and security of your `CrowdfundingCampaign` through
comprehensive tests is critical.
- **Advanced zkSync Integrations:** Explore deeper into zkSync's ecosystem by
implementing features like account abstraction and paymasters to enhance user
experience and contract flexibility.
- **Community Engagement and Contribution:** Join the vibrant zkSync community.
Participate in forums, Discord, or GitHub discussions. Sharing insights, asking queries,
and contributing can enrich the ecosystem and your understanding of zkSync.
