---
title: Overview
description: Explore the ZK Stack, a flexible, open-source framework designed for creating sovereign ZK-powered Ethereum rollups, known as hyperchains, utilizing the foundational technology of zkSync Era.
---

The ZK Stack is a comprehensive framework aimed at revolutionizing the development of Ethereum rollups through its modular design and open-source nature.
Based on the pioneering work of zkSync Era,
the ZK Stack extends the core functionalities to enable developers
to build custom hyperchains—Layer 2 (L2) and Layer 3 (L3) solutions—that are tailored to specific needs
while ensuring compatibility and interoperability within the Ethereum ecosystem.

## Core features of the ZK Stack

### Sovereignty

The ZK Stack is built on the principle of sovereignty, granting developers complete control over their hyperchains.
This means that developers can:

- **Customize Chain Features**: Tailor aspects such as transaction rules,
data availability, and consensus mechanisms to suit specific use cases or performance requirements.
- **Own the Code**: Have full rights to the underlying code, providing the freedom to modify or enhance the chain as needed without external constraints.

### Seamless connectivity

Despite each hyperchain's independence, the ZK Stack ensures that they do not operate in isolation.
Instead, hyperchains are part of a cohesive network, linked by hyperbridges that facilitate seamless interactions:

- **Trustless Interoperability**: Hyperbridges allow for secure and reliable communication between different hyperchains
without needing to trust a central authority, making interactions as trustless as those on Ethereum itself.
- **Fast and Cost-Effective**: Communication and asset transfers between hyperchains are designed to be both rapid (completed within minutes)
and economical (incurring costs equivalent to a single standard transaction).
