---
title: Introduction
description:
---

**ZKsync Era** is a Layer 2
**[ZK rollup](/build/resources/glossary#zk-rollup)**, a trustless protocol that
uses cryptographic validity proofs to provide scalable and low-cost transactions on Ethereum.
In ZKsync Era, computation is performed off-chain and most data is stored off-chain as well.
Transactions are bundled into batches before generating a validity proof.
As all validity proofs are proven on the Ethereum mainchain, users enjoy the same security
level as in Ethereum.

ZKsync Era is made to look and feel like Ethereum, but with a higher throughput and lower fees.
Just like on Ethereum, smart contracts are written in Solidity/Vyper and can be called using the same clients as the other EVM-compatible
chains.

You don't need to register a separate private key before using it;
ZKsync supports existing Ethereum wallets out of the box.

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-cube-transparent-solid" color="blue"}
If you have not connected to ZKsync Era before, you will need to
configure your wallet with the network. To add ZKsync Era, see [Connect to ZKsync Era](/build/connect-to-zksync).
::

::card-group
  ::card
  ---
  title: ZKsync 101
  icon: i-heroicons-academic-cap-solid
  to: /build/zksync-101
  ---
  Experience a quick tutorial on building and deploying smart contracts on ZKsync Era.
  ::
  ::card
  ---
  title: Quickstart
  icon: i-heroicons-rocket-launch-solid
  to: /build/quick-start
  ---
  Learn to build projects locally for ZKsync Era using zksync-cli.
  ::
  ::card
  ---
  title: Tooling
  icon: i-heroicons-cog-6-tooth-20-solid
  to: /build/tooling/zksync-block-explorers
  ---
  Discover the tools available to you for your projects.
  ::
  ::card
  ---
  title: API Reference
  icon: i-heroicons-cloud-16-solid
  to: /build/api-reference
  ---
  Dive into the comprehensive articles of the JSON-RPC API available to you on ZKsync Era.
  ::
::

## Main features
:check-icon Mainnet-like security with zero reliance on 3rd parties.

:check-icon Permissionless EVM-compatible smart contracts.

:check-icon Preserving key EVM features, such as smart contract composability.

:check-icon Standard Web3 API.

:check-icon State updates via transaction outputs (also known as state diffs) which provides significant cost savings
over transaction inputs.

:check-icon Native account abstraction with improvements over EIP4337 (implemented in Ethereum and other rollups).

You can find [more information about ZKsync Era in l2beat](https://l2beat.com/scaling/projects/zksync-era#stage).

## Developer experience

ZKsync Era was built to provide a similar developer experience as Ethereum.

:check-icon Smart contracts can be written in Solidity or Vyper.

:check-icon Most contracts work out of the box so migrating projects is seamless.

:check-icon Smart contracts are compiled with custom compilers: **[zksolc and
zkvyper](https://docs.zksync.io/zk-stack/components/compiler/toolchain/overview.html)**.

:check-icon Use existing frameworks
like **[Hardhat](https://docs.zksync.io/build/tooling/hardhat/getting-started.html),** libraries like Ethers, Viem, or
web3.js, and tools like theGraph, Thirdweb, or Chainlink.

:check-icon Web3 API compatibility enables support of most developer tools.

:check-icon Different **[tools for testing and debugging
locally](https://docs.zksync.io/build/test-and-debug/getting-started.html)**.

## User experience

Interacting with applications built on ZKsync Era is seamless, cheap and fast.

- Transactions have instant confirmations and fast finality on L1.
- Transaction fees are extremely low (see [average transaction costs
  here](https://www.growthepie.xyz/fundamentals/transaction-costs)).
- Transaction fees can be conveniently paid with ERC20 tokens (e.g. USDC) thanks to **[native account abstraction and
  paymasters](https://docs.zksync.io/build/developer-reference/account-abstraction.html)**.
- Support for existing Ethereum-based wallets like Metamask, TrustWallet, Zerion or Rabby.
