---
title: Getting Started
description: Kickstart your development journey with ZKsync Era, covering everything from rollups to system contracts and fee structures.
---

Welcome to the ZKsync Era Developer reference documentation! This guide is your starting point for
understanding the core components and advanced features of ZKsync. It provides an essential
overview to help you effectively build on ZKsync Era.

::card-group
  ::card
  ---
  title: Introduction to Rollups
  icon: i-heroicons-scale-16-solid
  to: /build/developer-reference/protocol
  ---
  Explore the fundamentals of rollups for enhanced scalability and lower gas costs.
  ::
  ::card
  ---
  title: Ethereum Differences
  icon: i-heroicons-adjustments-horizontal-16-solid
  to: /build/developer-reference/ethereum-differences/evm-instructions
  ---
  Learn about the key distinctions between Ethereum Layer 1 and ZKsync Era.
  ::
  ::card
  ---
  title: Native Account Abstraction
  icon: i-heroicons-user-circle-16-solid
  to: /build/developer-reference/account-abstraction
  ---
  Utilize account abstraction to streamline user experiences and contract interactions.
  ::
  ::card
  ---
  title: ZKsync Era Contracts
  icon: i-heroicons-document-duplicate-16-solid
  to: /build/developer-reference/era-contracts/l1-contracts
  ---
  Discover the ZKsync Era L1 and system contracts.
  ::
  ::card
  ---
  title: ZKsync Era Fee Model
  icon: i-heroicons-currency-dollar-16-solid
  to: /build/developer-reference/fee-model
  ---
  Understand the fee structure in ZKsync to optimize transaction costs.
  ::
  ::card
  ---
  title: Bridging Assets
  icon: i-heroicons-arrow-path-16-solid
  to: /build/developer-reference/bridging-assets
  ---
  Facilitate asset transfers between Ethereum Layer 1 and ZKsync Layer 2 efficiently
  ::
::
