---
title: Overview
description: An introduction to zksync-hardhat.
tags: ["zksync", "hardhart", "plugins"]
---

ZKsync Era offers a robust set of official plugins tailored for Hardhat, allowing developers to seamlessly compile, deploy, and interact with smart
contracts optimized for zkRollups. Whether you're working with Solidity or Vyper, ZKsync's plugins provide the tools to take full advantage of
zkRollup technology, ensuring faster and cheaper transactions without compromising Ethereum's security.

### Key Features

- **Comprehensive plugin suite:** Easily extend your Hardhat projects with ZKsync-specific functionality, from contract compilation to deployment and verification.
- **Optimized for zkRollups:** Deploy contracts that leverage the scalability and security of zkRollups, reducing gas costs while maintaining
trustless security.
- **Seamless integration:** ZKsync plugins are designed to work out-of-the-box with Hardhat, simplifying the setup and management of your Layer 2 projects.

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
To use `zksync-hardhat`, visit the [Getting Started page](/build/tooling/hardhat/guides/getting-started).
::

## ZKsync Hardhat Plugins

ZKsync Era has the following official plugins for Hardhat:

- [@matterlabs/hardhat-zksync](/build/tooling/hardhat/plugins/hardhat-zksync) - used to access to all of the supported plugins and to use them
as needed in your project. This should be the primary plugin most developers will need to use.
- [@matterlabs/hardhat-zksync-solc](/build/tooling/hardhat/plugins/hardhat-zksync-solc) - used to compile contracts written in Solidity.
- [@matterlabs/hardhat-zksync-vyper](/build/tooling/hardhat/plugins/hardhat-zksync-vyper) - used to compile contracts written in Vyper.
- [@matterlabs/hardhat-zksync-deploy](/build/tooling/hardhat/plugins/hardhat-zksync-deploy) - used to deploy smart contracts.
- [@matterlabs/hardhat-zksync-verify](/build/tooling/hardhat/plugins/hardhat-zksync-verify) - used to verify smart contracts.
- [@matterlabs/hardhat-zksync-verify-vyper](/build/tooling/hardhat/plugins/hardhat-zksync-verify-vyper) - used to verify vyper smart contracts.
- [@matterlabs/hardhat-zksync-upgradable](/build/tooling/hardhat/plugins/hardhat-zksync-upgradable) - used to deploy, update, and verify proxy smart contracts.
- [@matterlabs/hardhat-zksync-ethers](/build/tooling/hardhat/plugins/hardhat-zksync-ethers) - wrapper around zksync-ethers with some extra
Hardhat-specific functionality.
- [@matterlabs/hardhat-zksync-node](/build/tooling/hardhat/plugins/hardhat-zksync-node) - used to run the ZKsync era-test-node locally.
