---
title: Why zksync-hardhat?
description: Benefits and Advantages of using zksync-hardhat
tags: ["zksync", "hardhart", "plugins"]
---

Integrating ZKsync with Hardhat offers a transformative approach to Ethereum development, combining the best of both worlds: Hardhat’s robust
development environment and ZKsync's innovative Layer 2 scaling solutions. Here’s why you should consider using ZKsync with Hardhat for your next project:

### Scalability and efficiency

ZKsync utilizes zkRollup technology to increase transaction throughput while maintaining security significantly. Using ZKsync with Hardhat, you can
develop smart contracts that benefit from reduced gas fees and faster transaction times, addressing Ethereum's scalability challenges without
compromising decentralization.

### Seamless development workflow

Hardhat is renowned for its developer-friendly features, including local testing, debugging, and deployment tools. The ZKsync plugins for Hardhat
integrate seamlessly into this environment, allowing you to leverage Hardhat’s powerful toolset while benefiting from ZKsync’s Layer 2
solutions. This integration means you can continue to use familiar Hardhat commands and workflows with added ZKsync functionality.

### Advanced contract management

With ZKsync’s suite of Hardhat plugins, you can easily compile, deploy, and manage your smart contracts on ZKsync Era. The plugins cover a range of tasks:

- **Compilation:** Use ZKsync-specific compilers for Solidity and Vyper to ensure compatibility and optimize performance on ZKsync.
- **Deployment:** Deploy contracts to ZKsync Era with streamlined processes, leveraging Hardhat’s deployment scripts and the ZKsync deployer tools.
- **Verification:** Verify your contracts on ZKsync to enhance transparency and trust.

### Cost-effective testing

ZKsync’s local development node, available through the ZKsync CLI, allows you to test your contracts in a local environment that mimics the ZKsync
network. This feature eliminates the need for external testnet funds and helps you iterate quickly and cost-effectively during development.

### Community and support

Using ZKsync with Hardhat, you tap into a vibrant community of developers and extensive documentation. Both ZKsync and Hardhat have strong support
networks, providing resources, updates, and troubleshooting help to ensure your projects succeed.

### Future-proof development

ZKsync is at the forefront of Ethereum scalability solutions, and Hardhat is a leading development tool. Combining them prepares your projects for
the future of Ethereum, embracing both advanced scalability and cutting-edge development practices.
