---
title: System Hooks
description: Learn about the System Hooks
---

System hooks are special functions that can be triggered by a call on a specific system address. The space for this special addresses is specified
in the [bootloader](/zksync-protocol/zksyncos/bootloader) configuration.

System hooks have two distinct use cases:

- Implementing precompiles like EVM. We currently support the following precompiles at their EVM addresses:
  - ecrecover
  - sha256
  - ripemd-160
  - identity
  - modexp
  - ecadd
  - ecmul
  - ecpairing
- Implementing system contracts: formal contracts that implement some system functionality, like Era's nonce holder. Needed to support EraVM.
  - L1 messenger system hook
  - L2 Base token system hook
  - Contract deployer system hook

## L1 Messenger System Hook**

The L1 messenger system hook is responsible for sending messages to the L1. Users can call it using the special interface.
The input should be encoded as calldata for the `sendToL1(bytes)` method following the Solidity ABI.

The implementation of the L1 messenger system hook does two things: decodes the input and records the message using the system method.

## L2 Base Token System Hook

The L2 base token system implements only two methods: `withdraw(address)`, `withdrawWithMessage(address,bytes)`.

These are required to support EraVM-like base token withdrawals.

## Contract Deployer System Hook

The contract deployer system hook implements only one method: `setDeployedCodeEVM(address,bytes)`.

It allows setting arbitrary deployed EVM bytecode at any address, but can only be called by a special system address.
It is used exclusively by protocol upgrade transactions approved through governance.
