---
title: Getting started with ZKsync protocol
description: Dive deep into ZKsync Protocol, covering everything from rollups to system contracts and fee structures.
---

Welcome to the ZKsync Protocol documentation! This section is your starting point for understanding the core
components and advanced features of ZKsync. It provides an essential overview to help you effectively build
on ZKsync.

::card-group
  ::card
  ---
  title: Introduction to Rollups
  icon: i-heroicons-scale-16-solid
  to: /zksync-protocol/rollup
  ---
  Explore the fundamentals of rollups for enhanced scalability and lower gas costs.
  ::
  ::card
  ---
  title: API
  icon: i-heroicons-code-bracket-square
  to: /zksync-protocol/api
  ---
  Find the specification for ZKsync Web3 API.
  ::
  ::card
  ---
  title: ZKsync OS
  icon: i-heroicons-cube-transparent
  to: /zksync-protocol/zksyncos/overview
  ---
  Learn about the ZKsync OS, the execution layer.
  ::
  ::card
  ---
  title: ZKsync Airbender
  icon: i-heroicons-sparkles
  to: /zksync-protocol/zksync-airbender/overview
  ---
  Deep dive into ZKsync Airbender, the new ZK proof system.
  ::
  ::card
  ---
  title: Contracts
  icon: i-heroicons-document-magnifying-glass-16-solid
  to: /zksync-protocol/contracts
  ---
  Understand the contracts managing ZKsync protocol on L1 and L2
  ::
  ::card
  ---
  title: Virtual Machine
  icon: i-heroicons-cpu-chip-16-solid
  to: /zksync-protocol/vm
  ---
  Get familiar with EraVM.
  ::
  ::card
  ---
  title: Compilers
  icon: i-heroicons-cog
  to: /zksync-protocol/compiler/toolchain
  ---
  Introduce yourself to the compilers for the ZKsync Virtual Machine.
  ::
  ::card
  ---
  title: Security
  icon: i-heroicons-shield-check
  to: /zksync-protocol/security/audits
  ---
  Understand the ZKsync security.
  ::
  ::card
  ---
  title: Ethereum Differences
  icon: i-heroicons-adjustments-horizontal-16-solid
  to: /zksync-protocol/differences/evm-instructions
  ---
  Learn about the key distinctions between Ethereum Layer 1 and ZKsync.
  ::
  ::card
  ---
  title: Native Account Abstraction
  icon: i-heroicons-user-circle-16-solid
  to: /zksync-protocol/account-abstraction
  ---
  Utilize account abstraction to streamline user experiences and contract interactions.
  ::
