---
title: Getting Started
description: Learn how to use the awesome zk_toolbox CLI toolkit for creating and managing ZK Stack Chains.
---

## Overview
ZK Toolbox is a comprehensive toolkit for creating and managing ZK Stack chains. It provides developers with a powerful set of utilities to streamline their workflow when working with ZKSync. With ZK Toolbox, you can effortlessly set up ecosystems, manage chains, handle prover operations, and integrate essential services like observability tools and explorers. You can also efficiently develop, test, and maintain ZKsync.

The ZK Toolbox consists of two main components:

- **ZK Inception:** A tool for creating and managing ZK Stacks, which are the foundational elements of ZKSync networks.
- **ZK Supervisor:** A collection of utilities for developing and maintaining ZKSync infrastructure.

::card-group
  ::card
  ---
  title: ZK Inspection
  icon: i-heroicons-rocket-launch-solid
  to: /build/start-coding/quick-start
  ---
  Learn how to use zk_toolbox to create and manage ZK Stack chains.
  ::
  ::card
  ---
  title: ZK Supervisor
  icon: i-heroicons-command-line-solid
  to: /build/start-coding/zksync-101
  ---
  See zk_toolbox commands for developing with ZKSync.
  ::
::

### Who Should Use ZK Toolbox?
ZK Toolbox is designed for:

- **Blockchain Developers and Infrastructure Engineers:** Those who want to build and deploy applications on ZKSync, as well as set up and maintain ZKSync infrastructure.
- **Network Operators:** Managing ZKSync networks or running external nodes.

### ZK Toolbox vs ZKSync CLI

While ZKSync CLI is used for scaffolding, deploying, and managing smart contracts on ZKSync, ZK Toolbox creates and manages ZK Stack ecosystems.

## Installation

To install ZK Inception and ZK Supervisor, you have two options:

1. Install from Git:

```bash
cargo install --git https://github.com/matter-labs/zksync-era/ --locked zk_inception zk_supervisor --force
```

2. Build manually from a local copy of the [ZKsync repository](https://github.com/matter-labs/zksync-era/):

```bash
./bin/zkt
```

After completing the installation, you can go ahead and use [ZK Inspection](/build/zk-toolbox/zk-inspection) and [ZK Supervisor](/build/zk-toolbox/zk-supervisor) commands.