---
title: Proxy RPC API
description: Learn about the Prividium Proxy RPC API.
---

The proxy RPC API is the main component that enables privacy in the ZKsync Stack.

In a standard rollup, there is a standard RPC API that provides full access
to transaction data for users.
The proxy RPC is an additional layer in between end users and the chain's standard RPC API.
The proxy layer enables authentication of requests to the standard RPC.

Access to the standard RPC should remain private.
We highly recommend implementing a secure firewall around the standard RPC API.
Only the proxy RPC API endpoint should be publicly shared.

## Setting up the Proxy

After your ecosystem and validium chain are setup,
you can initialize the Proxy API.

:display-partial{path="/zk-stack/prividium/_partials/quickstart/_proxy"}

## Upgrading the Proxy

To upgrade your proxy API to the latest version:

1. Run `zkstackup` to upgrade your version of `zkstack`.
1. Update the `zksync-era` repo in the ecosystem folder.
1. Delete the `private-rpc` Docker container.
1. Re-run the `zkstack private-rpc init` command.
  This command will update the chain's `private-proxy-docker-compose.yml` file,
  but won't change the `private-rpc-permissions.yaml` config.
1. Start the server with `zkstack private-rpc run`.

## Configuring the Proxy

In the generated docker compose file, you can configure
the environment variables as needed.

The service is configured through six key environment variables:

- `CORS_ORIGIN`: sets the web-origin domain that the API will accept requests from.
  It defaults to the local port where the block explorer runs.
  It can also be an array of domains separated by a comma.
- `CREATE_TOKEN_SECRET`: the shared secret used to verify clients requesting to create new access tokens.
- `PERMISSIONS_YAML_PATH`: points to the YAML file that lists the access rules enforced by the proxy.
- `DATABASE_URL`: points to the chain's PostgreSQL database.
- `PORT`: the port where the proxy itself listens (`4041` by default).
- `TARGET_RPC`: the standard internal RPC API endpoint the proxy forwards validated requests to.

## Configuring Whitelisting

To whitelist wallet addresses, you can add them to the `PERMISSIONS_YAML_PATH` file.

- A mandatory top-level key `whitelisted_wallets` can be found.
- To restrict access to a **specific set** of wallets, this key must be a non-empty array of valid addresses.
- If the key is missing or the array is empty, the **private-rpc** service will fail to start, preventing potential misconfiguration.

The following is an example of a whitelisted wallets configuration in the `PERMISSIONS_YAML_PATH` file:

```yaml
whitelisted_wallets:
  - "0x1234567890123456789012345678901234567890"
  - "0xabcdefabcdefabcdefabcdefabcdefabcdefabcdef"
```

To allow **any** wallet address, this key must be set to the literal string `"all"`.

```yaml
whitelisted_wallets: 'all'
```

### Enforcing Whitelisting

At token creation, the endpoint **`POST /users`** is responsible for enforcing the whitelist.

- When a request is made to create a user (and get a token), the service first checks if the provided address is on the whitelist.
- If the address is **not** authorized, the endpoint will return a `403 Forbidden` error.
- If the address **is** authorized, the user is created, and a token is returned as usual.

### Deleting a Wallet from the Whitelist

If you need to delete a wallet address from the whitelist, you'll need to:

1. Modify the `whitelisted_wallets` list in the `permissions.yml` file to remove the address
2. Restart the **private-rpc** service to apply the changes

## Configuring Access

To configure access to different smart contracts on your chain,
Prividium uses a simple YAML file.
Edits to the permissions file only require a restart of the Proxy service to be applied.

You can see what an example configuration file looks like below:

```ts
:code-import{filePath="prividium/example-permissions.yaml"}
```

:display-partial{path="/zk-stack/prividium/_partials/quickstart/_access"}

The example implementation showcases one approach, but it can be easily modified to accommodate unique workflows or compliance requirements.

## Limitations

### Multicall contract methods

Currently, [multicall](https://docs.chainstack.com/docs/http-batch-request-vs-multicall-contract#multicall-contract) contract methods
cannot be used in a user's access policy,
as it would enable bypassing the other access policy rules.

### L1-L2 transactions

L1-L2 transactions, also known as forced transactions, originate from Ethereum (the L1) and can be force included on the L2 chain.
In a public chain, this mechanism helps ensure censorship resistance for users,
and allows them to retain full control of their assets.

For Prividium chains though,
forced transactions can also be a vector for deploying arbitrary contracts,
performing arbitrary contract writes,
and leaking data through blind attacks.
The ZKsync protocol contracts have a way to
[request arbitrary transaction](https://github.com/matter-labs/era-contracts/blob/29f9ff4bbe12dc133c852f81acd70e2b4139d6b2/l1-contracts/contracts/bridgehub/Bridgehub.sol#L216)
to be executed from Ethereum,
and it can be used to bypass the privacy configuration of a Prividium chain.

Currently **L1-L2 transactions are not automatically disabled** in Prividium chains.
Prividium chain operators can be protected against malicious use of these forced transactions by implementing [transaction filtering](/zk-stack/extending/transaction-filtering).
Note that for users, this means that the chain has the ability to censor transactions.
It is the responsibility of the chain operator to decide how to implement this filtering.
