---
title: Getting started
description: Learn to build and deploy smart contracts on ZKsync Era.
---

Welcome to ZKsync 101 for deploying smart contracts on ZKsync!
In this guide, we'll walk you through the process of creating and deploying a simple smart contract that creates a crowdfunding campaign for Zeek.

By the end of the series, you will learn integral pieces that will
help you become a great developer on ZKsync! You will learn how to:

:check-icon Initialize a new project with zksync-cli.

:check-icon Deploy contracts on ZKsync Era using Hardhat or Foundry.

:check-icon Test your contracts with Hardhat or Foundry.

:check-icon Implement upgradable patterns for your contracts.

:check-icon Implement a Paymaster to simplify transactions for your users.

---

## Install zksync-cli

Our Quickstart series utilizes the `zksync-cli` to help you develop and interact with ZKsync from your local machine. Check out our
[zksync-cli section](/build/tooling/zksync-cli) to learn more on how to use the CLI.

You will need to install a couple tools to effectively use `zksync-cli`:

#### Install Node.js or Bun.sh

You will need either Node.js or Bun.sh.
The choice depends on your project's requirements and personal preference for package management and execution speed.
If you are unfamiliar with both, choose Node.js.

- Node.js
  - Download the Long-Term Support (LTS) version from the [official Node.js website](https://nodejs.org/en/download).
  - For first-time users, the [Node.js usage guide](https://nodejs.org/api/synopsis.html#usage)
  offers comprehensive instructions on getting started.
- Bun.sh
  - Obtain the latest version from the [Bun installation page](https://bun.sh/docs/installation).
  Bun.sh is known for its high performance and modern JavaScript features.

### Setup era local node (optional)

Our Quickstart series will have you compile and deploy contracts to
%%zk_testnet_name%% which requires you to have ETH in your wallet for funding transactions.
Alternatively, our `zksync-cli` tool provides a way for you to setup a test node locally.
This era local node allows for quicker testing and debugging processes without incurring testnet transaction costs.

#### Install Docker

The era local node will need Docker to run locally on your machine.
Download the appropriate version from the [Docker website](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/).

#### Run a local ZKsync Era node

Run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
zksync-cli dev start
```

Choose "In memory node" to deploy a local ZKsync Era node in a Docker container.

The local era node will also include pre-configured rich wallets for use, visit [era-test-node rich wallets](/build/test-and-debug/in-memory-node#pre-configured-rich-wallets).

Your local ZKsync Era node is accessible at **[http://127.0.0.1:8011](http://127.0.0.1:8011/)**, ready for deployment or testing purposes.
Leave this terminal open and running as you build your projects.
When you are done running your local Era node, you can stop it with `Ctrl+C`.

---

## Choose Hardhat or Foundry

Our Quickstart series provides two options for your learning process using
either Hardhat or Foundry. Pick one to use and stick with as you go through
each of the guides.

<!-- Create a component that sets which tool they use and pre-set the tabs -->

### Install foundry-zksync

If you choose to use Foundry for the Quick Start series, you will need to
install the `foundry-zksync` tool. This tool is a specialized fork of Foundry, tailored for ZKsync.
It extends Foundry's capabilities for Ethereum app development to support ZKsync,
allowing for the compilation, deployment, testing, and interaction with smart contracts on ZKsync.

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-information-circle-16-solid" color="amber"}
`foundry-zksync` is still in an alpha stage, so some features might not be fully supported
yet and may not work as fully intended. It is open-sourced and contributions are welcome.
::

Quickly set up `foundry-zksync` by following these steps:

1. **Clone the Repository**:
   Download the latest version from GitHub:

   ```bash
   git clone git@github.com:matter-labs/foundry-zksync.git
   cd foundry-zksync
   ```

2. **Run the Installer**:
   Execute the script to install the `foundry-zksync` binaries `forge` and `cast`:

   ```bash
   ./install-foundry-zksync
   ```

### Private key setup with Foundry keystore

:display-partial{ path="_partials/_foundry-create-keystore" }

---

## Fund your wallet

If you did not set up a local era node for development and plan to use %%zk_testnet_name%%, you will need testnet ETH to fund transactions.

1. Obtaining Testnet ETH:

    - Use the [LearnWeb3 faucet](https://learnweb3.io/faucets/zksync_sepolia/)
    to directly receive testnet ETH on %%zk_testnet_name%%.
    - Alternatively, acquire SepoliaETH from [recommended faucets](/ecosystem/network-faucets)
    transfer it to the %%zk_testnet_name%% via the [ZKsync bridge](https://portal.zksync.io/bridge/?network=sepolia).

2. Verify your balance:

   - Check your wallet's balance using the [%%zk_testnet_name%% explorer](%%zk_testnet_block_explorer_url%%).

---

## Next Steps

You should now have a fully working local environment to build new projects on ZKsync!

- Continue to [Hello ZKsync!](/build/zksync-101/hello-zksync) to begin the series on building a crowdfunding campaign for Zeek.
- This setup provides you everything you need to build in ZKsync.
You can skip on to creating your own projects using `zksync-cli` with your fully set up local dev environment.
