---
title: Paymaster
description: Implement a paymaster flow into your project.
---

Welcome to the final part of our Quickstart Series on mastering zkSync development!
In this guide, we move beyond the basics
of smart contract deployment and the creation of contract factories to explore the innovative concept of paymasters
in the zkSync ecosystem. This guide will illuminate the power of paymasters to revolutionize transaction
fee management and enhance user experiences within your dApps.

:check-icon Delve deeper into zkSync development with the introduction of paymasters.

:check-icon Learn how paymasters can cover transaction fees for your dApp users, enhancing accessibility and user experience.

:check-icon Discover the flexibility of fee payment with paymasters, including the ability to pay
fees in ERC20 tokens on zkSync Era, using Hardhat or Foundry.

Embark on this journey to understand how paymasters can add a new layer of functionality and user-friendliness
to your decentralized applications.

## What is a Paymaster?

Paymasters in the zkSync ecosystem represent a groundbreaking approach to handling transaction fees.
They are special accounts designed to subsidize transaction costs for other accounts,
potentially making certain transactions free for end-users.
This feature is particularly useful for dApp developers looking
to improve their platform's accessibility and user experience by covering transaction fees on behalf of their users.

## Built-in Paymaster Flows

Paymasters can operate under various flows, some of which may require user interaction, such as setting allowances
for token swaps. These flows enable paymasters to support a wide range of use cases, from simple fee subsidies
to more complex scenarios involving ERC20 token exchanges for transaction fees.

- **General Paymaster Flow:** This default flow requires no preliminary actions from users, allowing paymasters
to interpret transaction data as needed to cover fees.

- **Approval-Based Paymaster Flow:** For operations requiring user permissions, such as token allowances,
this flow provides a structured approach. It ensures that user tokens can be seamlessly exchanged for transaction
fees, subject to user-approved limits.

As we explore paymasters, remember that while they offer enhanced flexibility for fee management, their
implementation should always prioritize security and user trust. This guide aims to equip you with the knowledge
to effectively incorporate paymasters into your zkSync projects, paving the way for more user-friendly and accessible dApps.

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-triangle" color="amber"}
The paymaster smart contract code is provided "as-is" without any express or implied warranties.
<br />

- Users are solely responsible for ensuring that their design, implementation,
  and use of the paymaster smart contract software complies with all applicable laws,
  including but not limited to money transmission, anti-money laundering (AML), and payment processing regulations.

- The developers and publishers of this software disclaim any liability for any legal issues that may arise from its use.
::

---

## Paymaster flow

Select the paymaster type you want to get started using zkSync Era with.

::content-switcher
---
items: [{
  label: 'General',
  partial: '_paymasters/_general_paymaster_flow'
},{
  label: 'Approval',
  partial: '_paymasters/_approval_paymaster_flow'
}]
---
::

## Takeaways

- **Comprehensive Understanding of Paymaster Contracts:** This guide has provided a detailed look at both the
`ApprovalFlowPaymaster` and the `GeneralPaymaster` contracts, illustrating how they manage transaction fees
in zkSync. These paymasters are pivotal in handling gas payments, offering a more accessible transaction
experience for users.
- **Flexibility and User Empowerment:** By covering the transaction fees through ERC20 tokens or general subsidies, these
paymaster contracts offer significant flexibility and reduce the friction typically associated with on-chain
interactions. This feature enhances user engagement and adoption of dApps.

## Next Steps

- **Experiment with Different Paymaster Contracts:** Now that you are familiar with both approval-based and general
paymaster flows, you can experiment with these contracts by deploying them under various conditions
and with different types validations, restrictions and enhancements.
- **Develop a Front-End Interface:** Consider building a user interface that interacts with the paymaster contracts
you have deployed. This will not only improve the usability of your contracts but also provide practical insights
into how end-users interact with your dApps in real-world scenarios.
- **Community Engagement and Contribution:** Join the vibrant zkSync community.
Participate in forums, Discord, or GitHub discussions. Sharing insights, asking queries,
and contributing can enrich the ecosystem and your understanding of zkSync.
