---
title: Create an ERC20 token
description: In this tutorial you'll build and deploy an ERC20 token to %%zk_testnet_name%%
---

This tutorial shows you how to deploy and interact with an ERC20 token on %%zk_testnet_name%%.

This is what you're going to do:

:check-icon Build an ERC20 token smart contract with additional custom logic

:check-icon Deploy the smart contract to the %%zk_testnet_name%% using Remix or Atlas.

## Prerequisites

1. Before you start, make sure that
[you’ve configured the %%zk_testnet_name%% in your wallet](/zksync-era/environment).
2. Have at least 0.5 %%zk_testnet_name%% ETH. If you need more, use [one of the faucets](/ecosystem/network-faucets).

## Custom ERC20 token code

ERC20 tokens are a standard for fungible tokens, which can be traded and represent a fixed value. You’ve used ERC20
tokens if you’ve transacted with USDC, DAI, USDT, LINK or UNI.

The ERC20 token we’re going to deploy will allow users to mint and burn tokens. The entire smart contract code is as
follows:

```solidity
// SPDX-License-Identifier: Unlicensed
pragma solidity ^0.8.19;

import "@openzeppelin/contracts/token/ERC20/ERC20.sol";
import "@openzeppelin/contracts/access/Ownable.sol";
import "@openzeppelin/contracts/token/ERC20/extensions/ERC20Burnable.sol";

contract TestToken is ERC20, Ownable, ERC20Burnable {
    constructor(string memory name, string memory symbol) ERC20(name, symbol) {
        _mint(msg.sender, 100 * 10 ** decimals());
    }

    function mint(address to, uint256 amount) public onlyOwner {
        _mint(to, amount);
    }
}
```

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
ZKsync Era is [EVM compatible](/build/resources/glossary#evm-compatible), so you can use existing popular libraries like OpenZeppelin.
::

The most important features are:

- `Ownable` : this extension sets the deployer account as owner of the smart contract. It also introduces the
  `onlyOwner` modifier that restricts the execution of certain functions to the owner of the contract.
- `ERC20Burnable`: this extension adds the `burn` and `burnFrom` functions to the smart contract. These functions
  destroy tokens from a given account.
- `constructor`: called on deployment, the constructor will assign the given name and symbol to the token and mint 100
  units of it to the account that deployed the contract.
- `mint` : this function creates new token units to a given account. It uses the `onlyOwner` modifier so it can only be
  called from the owner account.

## Deploy and interact with the contract

To complete this tutorial you'll use either Atlas or Remix. Select your preferred tool:

::content-switcher
---
items: [{
  label: 'Atlas',
  partial: '_erc20_tutorial/_atlas_erc20_tutorial'
}, {
  label: 'Remix',
  partial: '_erc20_tutorial/_remix_erc20_tutorial'
}]
---
::

## Takeaways

- **ZKsync Era is EVM compatible** and supports existing smart contract libraries like OpenZeppelin
- **Use popular libraries like** `ethers` , `viem`, or `web3.js` to interact with smart contracts deployed on ZKsync Era.

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-triangle" color="amber"}
The ERC20 token code is provided “as is” without any express or implied warranties.

- The regulatory regime governing digital assets is still developing and is unclear in many jurisdictions.

- ERC20 tokens may possess unique legal, tax, and market risks, so it is up to you to determine which, if any, laws apply to your deployment of ERC20 tokens.

- The developers and publishers of this software disclaim any liability for any legal issues that may arise from its use.
::

## Next steps

- Continue learning about [paymasters and paying transaction fees with this ERC20 token](/build/start-coding/quick-start/paymasters-introduction).
- Join the [ZKsync developer community in Discord](https://join.zksync.dev/) where you can ask any questions about this
 tutorial in the `#dev-quickstart` channel.
- Join our [GitHub Discussions Community](%%zk_git_repo_zksync-developers%%/discussions/) to
  help other devs building on ZKsync or share your project.
