---
title: Block explorer
description: Explore the functionality of Block Explorer, a comprehensive tool for monitoring activities on your ZK chain.
---

[The Block Explorer](https://github.com/matter-labs/block-explorer)
is a tool designed to provide comprehensive insights into all activities occurring on a ZK chain.
This tool is especially useful for users and developers who need to monitor or interact with the blockchain.

It includes some ZK Stack specific features like:

- Batches information: l1 (commitment, proving and execution), miniblocks to batch relation
- Paymaster txs decoding
- ZKEVM contract verification

### Block Explorer Components

The Block Explorer consists of three main components:

- **Block Explorer Worker:**
  This indexer service manages ZK chain data.
  Its main role is to collect data from the blockchain in real time, process this data, and populate a database that supports the API.

- **Block Explorer API:**
  This component offers an HTTP API to access structured data from the ZK chain.
  It retrieves data from the database maintained by the Block Explorer Worker.

- **Block Explorer App:**
  This is the user interface that enables users and developers to navigate and examine transactions,
  blocks, batches, contracts, tokens, and other elements within the ZK chain.

## Using a Block Explorer

A block explorer is a web-app that lets you view and inspect transactions, blocks,
contracts and more. A [free open source block explorer](https://github.com/matter-labs/block-explorer) is available for your ZK chain.

First, each chain should be initialized:

```bash
zkstack explorer init
```

This command creates a database to store explorer data and generates a docker compose file with explorer services
(`explorer-docker-compose.yml`).

Next, for each chain you want to have an explorer, you need to start its backend services:

```bash
zkstack explorer backend --chain <chain_name>
```

This command uses previously created docker compose file to start the services (api, data fetcher, worker) required for
the explorer.

Finally, you can run the explorer app:

```bash
zkstack explorer run
```

This command will start the dockerized explorer app using configuration from `apps/explorer.config.json` file inside
your ecosystem directory. You can edit this file to configure the app if needed.

You can now navigate to the explorer web-app. By default, explorer frontend starts on
`http://localhost:3010`, you can configure the port in `apps.yaml` file.

### Scaling the Block Explorer

| Component | Scaling | Responsibility | Dependencies | State Recovery | Load Pattern |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Explorer API  | Autoscale | Internal API for Block Explorer | PSQL Replicas | Stateless | PSQL |
| Contract Verifiers | Autoscale | Processing contract verification requests | PSQL Master | Stateless | CPU |
