---
title: "Portal: Wallet + Bridge"
description: Discover how the Portal dApp facilitates interaction with your ZK chain, including asset bridging, transaction tracking, and contract management.
---

[The Portal](https://github.com/matter-labs/dapp-portal) is a decentralized application (dApp) designed to enhance interaction with your ZK chain.
It serves as a versatile tool for both you and your users, simplifying various operations within the blockchain environment.

### Key Features

- **Bridging Assets:** The Portal enables the movement of assets between the Layer 1 (L1) network and your ZK chain, facilitating smooth asset transfers.
- **Internal Transactions:** Users can send assets within the ZK chain efficiently, utilizing the Portal's user-friendly interface.
- **Transaction History:** The Portal provides access to view and verify historical transactions, enhancing transparency and user trust in the platform.
- **Contract Management:** It supports users in managing smart contracts, including deployment and interaction functionalities.

Enhancing the Portal's capabilities is possible by integrating it with the [Block Explorer Indexer/API](block-explorer),
which provides additional data and analytics support, further enriching the user experience.

## Using the Portal

The [Portal](https://github.com/matter-labs/dapp-portal) module is a web-app that allows you to:

- Bridge & transfer tokens to your ZK chain.
- View balances.
- Add contacts for quick and easy access.

Once you have at least one chain initialized, you can run the portal app locally:

```bash
zkstack portal
```

This command will start the dockerized portal app using configuration from `apps/portal.config.json` file inside your
ecosystem directory. You can edit this file to configure the portal app if needed.

You can now navigate to the portal web-app. By default, portal frontend starts on
`http://localhost:3030`, you can configure the port in `apps.yaml` file.

## Using zksync-cli

[ZKsync CLI](/zksync-era/tooling/zksync-cli) allows you to easily interact and develop applications on your ZK chain.
When executing any command with ZKsync CLI, you can specify RPC urls for both L1 and L2.
Your local server contains RPCs for both.
An example deposit command via the bridge would look like:

```bash
zksync-cli bridge deposit --rpc=http://localhost:3050 --l1-rpc=http://localhost:8545
```

You can save the chain configurations for your ZK chain with ZKsync CLI by [adding a new configuration](/zksync-era/tooling/zksync-cli/configuring-chains).
