---
title: zksync-cli create
description: ZKsync CLI create command reference
---

The `zksync-cli create` command streamlines project setup by offering templates for frontend development, smart contracts,
and scripting for ZKsync.

```sh
zksync-cli create [folder name] [options]
```

::field-group
  ::field{name="--project"}
  The project type to select templates from, either `contracts`, `frontend`, or `scripting`.
  ::
  ::field{name="--template"}
  The project template to use. Choices are listed with the `zksync-cli create --help` command.
  ::
::

## Available Templates

`zksync-cli create` simplifies the initial project setup by providing templates in three main categories:

### Frontend

Fast-track your UI development with our frontend templates, supporting popular frameworks like Vue, React, Next.js, Nuxt, and Vite.
Options include viem, ethers, web3modal, rainbowkit, and more, equipping you with the necessary tools for dApp development.

ZKsync Frontend Templates repo can be found [here](%%zk_git_repo_zksync-frontend-templates%%#readme)

### Contracts

For smart contract development, choose from templates designed for quick deployment and testing, compatible with Solidity or Vyper.
Utilize tools like Hardhat to streamline your workflow.

ZKsync Contract Templates repo can be found [here](%%zk_git_repo_zksync-contract-templates%%#readme)

### Scripting

Enhance your project with Node.js scripting templates for automated interactions and advanced ZKsync operations.
Includes examples of wallet or contract interactions using viem, ethers, or web3.js.

ZKsync Scripting Examples repo can be found [here](%%zk_git_repo_zksync-scripting-templates%%#readme)
