---

title: L1VoidSigner
description: A class extending ethers.VoidSigner for Layer 1 operations
tags: ["Ethereum", "Blockchain", "L1", "Signer"]

---

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
Methods that are not listed below do not work since they require signing the transaction with the key!
::

A `L1VoidSigner` is an extension of the `ethers.VoidSigner` class providing only L1 (Layer 1) operations.

### Properties

- `providerL2?: Provider`
  - The provider instance connected to the L2 network.

### Methods

#### `constructor(address: string, providerL1?: ethers.Provider, providerL2?: Provider)`

Creates a new instance of `L1VoidSigner`.

##### Parameters

- `address: string` - The address of the account.
- `providerL1?: ethers.Provider` - The provider instance for connecting to an L1 network.
- `providerL2?: Provider` - The provider instance for connecting to an L2 network.

##### Example

```javascript
import { Provider, L1VoidSigner, types } from "zksync-ethers";
import { ethers } from "ethers";

const provider = Provider.getDefaultProvider(types.Network.Sepolia);
const ethProvider = ethers.getDefaultProvider("sepolia");
const signer = new L1VoidSigner("<ADDRESS>", ethProvider, provider);
```

#### `connect(provider: ethers.Provider): L1VoidSigner`

Connects the `L1VoidSigner` to the L1 network using the specified provider.

##### Parameters

- `provider: ethers.Provider` - The provider instance for connecting to an L1 network.

##### Returns

- `L1VoidSigner` - A new instance of `L1VoidSigner` connected to the specified provider.

##### Example

```javascript
import { L1VoidSigner } from "zksync-ethers";
import { ethers } from "ethers";

const ethProvider = ethers.getDefaultProvider("sepolia");

let signer = new L1VoidSigner("<ADDRESS>");
signer = signer.connect(ethProvider);
```

#### `getBalance(token?: Address, blockTag: BlockTag = 'committed'): Promise<bigint>`

Returns the balance of the account.

##### Parameters

- `token?: Address` - The token address to query balance for. Defaults to the native token.
- `blockTag: BlockTag` - The block tag to get the balance at. Defaults to 'committed'.

##### Returns

- `Promise<bigint>` - A promise that resolves to the balance of the account.

##### Example

```javascript
import { L1VoidSigner } from "zksync-ethers";
import { ethers } from "ethers";

const ethProvider = ethers.getDefaultProvider("sepolia");

const signer = new L1VoidSigner("<ADDRESS>", ethProvider);
const balance = await signer.getBalance();
```

### Private methods

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
These methods are used internally and are not intended for direct use by consumers of the class.
::

#### `_providerL1(): ethers.Provider`

Returns the provider connected to the L1 network.

##### Returns

- `ethers.Provider` - The provider instance connected to the L1 network.

#### `_signerL1(): L1VoidSigner`

Returns the current `L1VoidSigner` instance.

##### Returns

- `L1VoidSigner` - The current instance of `L1VoidSigner`.
