---
title: Getting started with ZKsync Stack
description: Quickstart - Getting Started with ZKsync Stack
---

## Development dependencies

Ensure you have followed [these instructions](https://github.com/matter-labs/zksync-era/blob/main/docs/src/guides/setup-dev.md)
to set up dependencies on your machine (don't worry about the Environment section for now).

## Deploying locally

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-triangle" color="amber"}
This guide is for setting up an Elastic Network ecosystem and for spinning up your own ZKsync chains
using ZKsync Stack. If you just want play around with a pre-built ZKsync chain, you can use `zksync-cli dev` to run docker containers.
Learn more on [zksync-cli](/zksync-era/tooling/zksync-cli).
::

### Install ZKsync Stack CLI

ZKsync Stack CLI facilitates the creation and management of an Elastic Network ecosystem and ZKsync chains using ZKsync Stack. All commands are interactive,
but you can also pass all necessary arguments via the command line. See here for [full instructions for ZKsync Stack CLI](https://github.com/matter-labs/zksync-era/tree/main/zkstack_cli).

1. Install zkstack from git:

    ```bash
    cargo install --git https://github.com/matter-labs/zksync-era/ --locked zkstack --force
    ```

Note: Foundry is utilized for deploying smart contracts with ZKsync Stack CLI. For commands related to deployment, you can pass flags for Foundry integration.
If you have previously installed `zksync-foundry` and have issues with this quickstart, try installing the standard latest version of foundry.

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
You can find a full reference for the `zkstack` CLI in the [`zksync-era` repo](https://github.com/matter-labs/zksync-era/tree/main/zkstack_cli/crates/zkstack).
::

### Setup ecosystem

An Elastic Chain ecosystem includes the components
that connects all ZKsync chains, like the BridgeHub, ZKsync Router, and state transition managers.

1. To create a ZKsync Stack project, you must first create the Elastic Chain ecosystem.

    ```bash
    zkstack ecosystem create
    ```

    - Give the ecosystem a name, for example "ZKsync Elastic Chain".

    - For the origin of zksync-era repository, select "Clone for me".

    - For the L1 network select "Localhost" to use the local reth docker container.

    - Give your ZKsync chain a name like "My ZK Chain", and next click enter to choose the default chain id as 271.

    - To use the default wallet for making transactions, select "Localhost".

    This option will use known mnemonic phrases to generate the `wallets.yaml` configuration files for the ecosystem and chain.
    You can also choose `random` to randomly generate the wallets,
    `empty` to generate a config file with empty values for the wallets,
    or `in-file` to set the location of the config to an existing file.

    - Proofs are not required to run a testnet, so for now choose "NoProofs".

    - For data availability, you can choose normal on chain Rollup data mode or off
    chain [Validium](/zksync-protocol/rollup/data-availability) data mode.

    - ZKsync chains support using $ETH or a custom ERC20 as a gas token. For now choose "Eth".

    - To start the database & containers, make sure you have Docker running. At this point the Elastic Chain ecosystem will be created.

        - Note: If you chose to not start database & L1 containers after creating the ecosystem, you can later run `zkstack containers`

2. All subsequent commands should be executed from within the ecosystem folder you created:

    ```bash
    cd  <YOUR_ECOSYSTEM_DIRECTORY> # if you followed the guide above, and used same ecosystem name, run `cd zksync_elastic_chain`
    ```

3. If the ecosystem has never been deployed before, initialization is required:

    ```bash
    zkstack ecosystem init
    ```

    - Follow the wizard to choose options for your deployment. For default options, you can simply use `--dev` flag.

    - Several components need to be compiled/built, so do not worry if it takes a few minutes.
        The console will show what is going on. To see a detailed breakdown you can run `--verbose` on ecosystem init.

### Add more ZKsync chains (optional)

Upon ecosystem setup, the first ZKsync chain is automatically generated. However, ZKsync Stack supports many ZKsync
chains running on the same Elastic Chain ecosystem. You can create additional chains and switch between them.

1. To create additional chains:

    ```bash
    zkstack chain create
    ```

2. Once created, contracts for the ZKsync chain must be deployed:

    ```bash
    zkstack chain init
    ```

    Initialization utilizes the ecosystem's governance to register it in the BridgeHub.

3. The first ZKsync chain created during ecosystem setup becomes the default chain, but you can
override it with another one by using the `--chain <name>` flag. Or to change the default ZKsync chain, use:

    ```bash
    zkstack ecosystem change-default-chain
    ```

### Running the ZKsync chain

1. For running the ZKsync chain:

    ```bash
    zkstack server
    ```

    If you setup multiple ZKsync chains, you can specify the chain you are running by providing `--chain <chain_name>` argument.

### Your ZKsync chain is now deployed & running

Your Elastic Chain ecosystem and your ZKsync chain(s) are now deployed to the base chain (most likely a local reth docker
container if you followed above guide) and are fully configured.

You can now run transactions and start playing with your ZKsync chain by using the RPC available at <http://localhost:3050>.

- Don't forget to deposit some ETH and fund your accounts on your ZKsync chain. To do so follow the instructions for [Funding accounts](/zk-stack/running/using-a-local-zk-chain#funding-accounts).

You can find all configurations:

- Ecosystem: At project root `<YOUR_ECOSYSTEM_DIRECTORY>/ZkStack.yaml`.

- ZKsync chain(s): Each chain has its own folder and configuration files can be found at `<YOUR_ECOSYSTEM_DIRECTORY>/chains/<YOUR_CHAIN_NAME>/`.

- Wallets, ERC20 test tokens, contracts, initial deployments, and more can be found in the ecosystem config folder at `<YOUR_ECOSYSTEM_DIRECTORY>/configs`

### Helpful Notes

- If you make changes to any contract, you can always deploy a new ZKsync chain to easily test those changes.
- If you configure your ZKsync chain once, you don't need to do it again as the wizard allows you to use an existing config file.
- For now, it is only possible to deploy a ZKsync chain as an L2, but soon it will also work as L3s.
- When running the default local reth node, you have a set of rich wallets available to you.
    ::drop-panel
    ::panel{label="Rich Wallets"}
      :display-partial{path="/_partials/_rich-wallets"}
    ::
    ::
- If you face an issue compiling rust code (example `<jemalloc>: Error allocating TSD`) try removing the `rust-toolchain` file from the repo.
