---
title: Using a local ZKsync Chain
description:
---

## Funding accounts

The first step to start interacting with your ZKsync chain is to fund an account (or a few).
This means you need some funds on the base layer.

During the `zkstack ecosystem create` configuration, you have a choice of what base layer to deploy the ZKsync chain onto:
a local reth node, or an Ethereum network (e.g., Sepolia).

### Base layer is the local reth node

If you choose to deploy on local [reth](https://ghcr.io/paradigmxyz/reth) node, you will have a set of addresses that have 100 ETH each.
You can find the list of rich wallets on GitHub in the [matter-labs/local-setup project](https://github.com/matter-labs/local-setup/blob/main/rich-wallets.json)
and use these addresses to deposit into your ZKsync chain via the bridge.

You can use `zkstack` to bridge ETH from one of these rich wallets to a local chain:

```bash
zkstack dev rich-account --chain <YOUR_CHAIN_NAME>
```

### Base layer is an Ethereum network (e.g., Sepolia)

If you choose to deploy on an Ethereum network (e.g., Sepolia), you need to have an account on the base layer with ETH.
You can use the deployer, governor, or operator wallets setup during the deployment process,
or any other wallet with funds, to deposit into your ZKsync chain via the bridge.

Once you have the accounts with funds on the L1 base layer, you can do a deposit via the bridge to your ZKsync chain,
and start interacting with your ZKsync chain using the L2 funded account.

## Using your chain RPC

Your server contains both HTTPS as well as WebSocket (WS) RPC services that are fully web3 compatible (and contain some extra ZK Stack functionalities).
Learn more on the [API reference page](../../20.zksync-protocol/10.api/00.index.md).

## Using zksync-cli

[ZKsync CLI](/zksync-network/tooling/zksync-cli) allows you to easily interact and develop applications on your ZKsync chain.
When executing any command with ZKsync CLI, you can specify RPC urls for both L1 and L2.
Your local server contains RPCs for both.
An example deposit command via the bridge would look like:

```bash
zksync-cli bridge deposit --rpc=http://localhost:3050 --l1-rpc=http://localhost:8545
```

You can save the chain configurations for your ZKsync chain with ZKsync CLI by [adding a new configuration](/zksync-network/tooling/zksync-cli/configuring-chains).

## Using the Portal

The [Portal](https://github.com/matter-labs/dapp-portal) module is a web-app that allows you to:

- Bridge & transfer tokens to your ZKsync chain.
- View balances.
- Add contacts for quick and easy access.

Once you have at least one chain initialized, you can run the portal app locally:

```bash
zkstack portal
```

This command will start the dockerized portal app using configuration from `apps/portal.config.json` file inside your
ecosystem directory. You can edit this file to configure the portal app if needed.

You can now navigate to the portal web-app. By default, portal frontend starts on
`http://localhost:3030`, you can configure the port in `apps.yaml` file.

## Using a Block Explorer

A block explorer is a web-app that lets you view and inspect transactions, blocks,
contracts and more. A [free open source block explorer](https://github.com/matter-labs/block-explorer) is available for your ZKsync chain.

First, each chain should be initialized:

```bash
zkstack explorer init
```

This command creates a database to store explorer data and generates a docker compose file with explorer services
(`explorer-docker-compose.yml`).

Next, for each chain you want to have an explorer, you need to start its backend services:

```bash
zkstack explorer backend --chain <chain_name>
```

This command uses previously created docker compose file to start the services (api, data fetcher, worker) required for
the explorer.

Finally, you can run the explorer app:

```bash
zkstack explorer run
```

This command will start the dockerized explorer app using configuration from `apps/explorer.config.json` file inside
your ecosystem directory. You can edit this file to configure the app if needed.

You can now navigate to the explorer web-app. By default, explorer frontend starts on
`http://localhost:3010`, you can configure the port in `apps.yaml` file.

### Contract Verification

The contract verifier is used to check contract source code against deployed bytecode.
This is going to be used in the explorer to display the source code and ABIs of contracts.

To setup a local contract verification API for your block explorer,
follow the steps below:

1. Initialize the contract verifier.
  You can choose here what versions of the compiler you want to support.
  This will download the needed binaries for verifying contracts on the block explorer.

    ```bash
    zkstack contract-verifier init
    ```

1. Run the verifier.

    ```bash
    zkstack contract-verifier run
    ```

The verifier will be running on the default port of `3070`.
