---
title: Validium in ZK Stack
description: Dive deeper into ZK Stack Validiums.
---

This section provides an in-depth exploration of validiums in ZK Stack. For more general overview of validiums,
see [here](/zksync-protocol/rollup/data-availability).

## Understanding Validiums

There are 3 different types of validiums based on the level of data availability they provide:

- **Stage 0** - the simplest type of validium that only stores its pubdata in the database of the node(s) running the
  chain.
- **Stage 1** - a validium that only sends its pubdata to the DA layer, but doesn’t verify its inclusion onchain.
- **Stage 2** - a validium that sends its pubdata to the DA layer, and also verifies its inclusion on the L1,
  either by using verification bridges or ZK proofs directly.

There are multiple DA layers that ZK Stack will be integrated with, however the first on the list are:
[Avail](https://www.availproject.org/), [Celestia](https://celestia.org/), and [EigenDA](https://www.eigenda.xyz/).

::drop-panel

  ::panel{label="What is a DA Layer?"}

  A DA layer is a blockchain network optimized for storing data in a cost-effective way.
  A DA layer *does not* prove the correctness of a L2 chain.

  Often DA layers are used in tandem with Ethereum for consensus.
  A DA layer can prove on Ethereum that some specific data in their network exists.
  By extension, this means that it can prove that data exists in a L2 blockchain that uses that DA layer.

  The ZKsync protocol for the Elastic Network then uses the DA layer's contracts on Ethereum to verify the inclusion proofs it receives from the chain.

  ::

  ::panel{label="What data does it store?"}

  The DA layer receives and stores pubdata of [L1 batches](https://docs.zksync.io/zksync-protocol/rollup/blocks#the-role-of-l1-batches) from a ZK chain.
  Pubdata consists of the state diffs, L2 to L1 logs, L2 to L1 messages, and published bytecodes.

  After the data is sent to the DA layer, the corresponding entry in the node's `data_availability` table is created.

  ::

::panel{label="How is DA validated?"}

The DA inclusion verification process consists of two steps,
with a corresponding smart contract responsible for each of them:

1. Committing to the pubdata, done by the `L2DAValidator` contract.
2. Using a commitment and a data provided by the operator to verify that the pubdata was included in the DA layer, done by the `L1DAValidator` contract.

##### `L2DAValidator`

The commitment is passed from `L2DAValidator` to `L1DAValidator` via L2→L1 logs, this happens within the system
contracts’ execution, so this process can be trusted as it is covered by ZK proof. The format of the commitment is
arbitrary, it is up to the `L2DAValidator` to decide what is the one that suits the specific DA layer the most.

##### `L1DAValidator`

The `IL1DAValidator` contract interface has one function: `checkDA` which checks the data availability for the given batch input.
It returns a struct with the state diff hash, the hashes of the blobs on L1, and the commitments to the blobs on L1.

Separate contracts that implement this interface are deployed for each DA layer. These contracts are stateless and can't
be proxies, meaning that they are immutable once deployed.
The `L1DAValidator` implementations may have different logic from DA layer to DA layer,
however the ZKsync protocol only requires it to return whether the commitment and proof pair is valid.

#### Approaches

There are 2 approaches that can be used here: verification bridges and ZK poofs.
The chain operator would be able to change the implementations of the L1/L2DAValidators, which allows for applying
updates/optimizations or completely changing the DA verification logic, e.g. due to migration to the different DA layer.

- **Verification bridges:** these are the smart contracts that get updated with the state roots of the specific DA layers.
  They utilize the ZK proofs to verify the validity of the provided state roots.
  Later on, the verification bridges can be called from `L1DAValidator` contract and normally use Merkle-proofs to verify against the known state roots.
- **ZK proofs:** similarly to the verification bridges, it's possible to utilize ZK proofs here, but directly in the `L1DAValidator`.
If we go a step further and do the ZK proof that has the following characteristics:
  - Complete the asserts that verification bridges do to ensure the validity of the state root.
  - Verify that the pubdata commitment relates to the data included in the data root of some specific block.
  - Verify that the data root is included in the state root.
    It would be possible only verify the proof without the need for additional checks against the bridges.
    This solution is especially relevant with DA layers that use the commitments that are inefficient to produce on EVM.

::

::

## Working with Validiums

### Server-related details

Getting a bit deeper into the technicalities, the process of persisting the pubdata in the different DA layers is
handled by two components: DA dispatcher and DA client:

- DA client’s role is to abstract the access to the DA layer and generalize it to 3 functions: `dispatch_blob`,
  `ensure_finality` and `get_inclusion_data`. Clients are a part of the `zksync-era` repository, see the
  code [here](https://github.com/matter-labs/zksync-era/tree/main/core/node/da_clients/src).
- DA dispatcher is responsible for periodically fetching the pubdata from the database, and calling the DA client to
  dispatch a blob, check that it was finalized or get an inclusion proofs for it. It also handles retries in case the
  client function call failed with a retryable error.

The DA-related information is stored in the `data_availability` table in the database.
A Validium’s new batches can’t be committed if their inclusion data in this table is NULL.

**Configuration**

The Validium chain is required to have the following configuration:

1. Set a pubdata sending mode [general.yaml]
    - `pubdata_sending_mode: CUSTOM`
2. Configure DA dispatcher (reference values below) [general.yaml]

    ```yaml
    da_dispatcher:
      polling_interval_ms: 5000
      max_rows_to_dispatch: 100
      max_retries: 5
      use_dummy_inclusion_data: false
    ```

3. Add DA client’s config and secrets, [see FAQ for details](#faq).

All the configs can also be set using environment variables instead of `.yaml` files, but it is less preferred.

### Deployed L1 DA Validators

| Ethereum | Mainnet                                      | Sepolia                                      |
|----------|----------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------|
| Rollup   | `0x72213dfe8CA61B0A782970dCFebFb877778f9119` | `0xcc46b186bd4515fa996adf3c40344ed7d546a65b` |
| NoDA     | `0x907b30407249949521Bf0c89A43558dae200146A` | `0xacaf20636f1b57aa55f9cb1ac07d1fd9d8a84f00` |
| Avail    | `0x8f50d93B9955B285f787043B30B5F51D09bE0120` | `0x73D59FE232fCe421d1365D6A5BEEc49aCDE3d0d9` |

| Gateway | Mainnet                                      | Sepolia                                      |
|---------|----------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------|
| Rollup  | `0x595b8C88B9e5f3a4c596C3e81BE6e11D53Bb9200` | `0x931661BAdBc221bd686446F17A0EA40aa5196779` |
| NoDA    | `0xC6f5162f09bd1f6C5e3aBB8F8589B7A8E73CCa5C` | `0xae56AB13f57225CefAF4A6D921Ec3C7d606450ea` |
| Avail   | `0x`                                         | `0x23B5c45dfDcAe9EAD887d58201D5f7479f7d3214` |

### FAQ

::drop-panel

  ::panel{label="How do I set up the new Validium chain locally?"}

  1. Install `zkstack` following [this](https://github.com/matter-labs/zksync-era/tree/main/zkstack_cli) guide
  2. `zkstack dev clean all` - to make sure you have an empty setup
  3. `zkstack containers` - this creates the necessary docker containers
  4. `zkstack ecosystem init` - init a default ecosystem (go with default options everywhere)
  5. `zkstack chain create` - create a new chain, stick to the default options, but select Validium when prompted, use this
    chain as default (the last question there)
  6. `zkstack chain init` - init the new chain
  7. configure the client, see the sections below
  8. `zkstack server --chain YOUR_CHAIN_NAME` - run the server

  ::

  ::panel{label="How to configure Avail client?"}

  1. Add the following block to the `general.yaml`, values used are only an example:
    - Full client:

       ```yaml
       da_client:
         avail:
           bridge_api_url: https://bridge.somedomain.com
           timeout_ms: 10000
           full_client:
             api_node_url: wss://turing-rpc.avail.so/ws
             app_id: 1
             max_blocks_to_look_back: 5 (optional)
             dispatch_timeout: 180s (optional)
       ```

    - Gas relay:

       ```yaml
       da_client:
         avail:
           bridge_api_url: https://bridge.somedomain.com
           timeout_ms: 10000
           gas_relay:
             gas_relay_api_url: https://gas-relay.domain.com
             max_retries: 5
       ```

2. Add the following block to the `secrets.yaml`:
    - Full client

       ```yaml
       da:
         avail:
           seed_phrase: YOUR_SEED_PHRASE
       ```

    - Gas relay

       ```yaml
       da:
         avail:
           gas_relay_api_key: YOUR_API_KEY
       ```

  ::

  ::panel{label="How to configure Celestia client?"}

1. Add the following block to the `general.yaml`, values used are only an example:

   ```yaml
    da_client:
      celestia:
        api_node_url: https://api-node.somedomain.com
        namespace: 000000000000000000000000000000000000ca1de12a5e2d5beb9ba9
        chain_id: mocha-4
        timeout_ms: 30000
    ```

2. Add the following block to the `secrets.yaml`:

    ```yaml
    da:
      celestia:
        private_key: YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY
    ```

  ::

  ::panel{label="How to configure EigenDA client?"}

1. Add the following block to the `general.yaml`, values used are only an example:

    ```yaml
    da_client:
      eigen:
        disperser_rpc: https://disperser-holesky.eigenda.xyz:443
        settlement_layer_confirmation_depth: 3
        eigenda_eth_rpc: https://eth-rpc.somedomain.com # optional
        eigenda_svc_manager_address: 0x1111111111111111111111111111111111111111
        wait_for_finalization: false
        authenticated: false
        points_source_url:
          g1_url: https://github.com/Layr-Labs/eigenda-proxy/raw/refs/heads/main/resources/g1.point
          g2_url: https://github.com/Layr-Labs/eigenda-proxy/raw/refs/heads/main/resources/g2.point.powerOf2
        # or, alternatively
        # points_source_path: /path/to/points
    ```

2. Add the following block to the `secrets.yaml`:

    ```yaml
    da:
      eigen:
        private_key: YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY
    ```

  ::

  ::panel{label="Is it possible to transition from Validium to Rollup and vice versa?"}
  Yes, it is possible, the process would be the same as switching DA layers.

Rollup L1/L2 DA validators are the same kind of contracts as the Validium ones, as they are also an implementations of
the same interface,
so the procedure wouldn't differ a lot.
  ::

  ::panel{label="How can I enable privacy?"}

  To enable privacy on your chain, check out the [Prividium documentation](/zk-stack/prividium).

  ::
::
