---
title: Overview
description: Understand the key differences when migrating projects with foundry-zksync.
---

Getting started with Foundry on ZKsync requires a few
key adjustments to accommodate the differences between Ethereum and ZKsync environments.

This guide will walk you through the essential steps for setting up your project, running tests, and configuring Foundry for ZKsync compatibility.

A `forge test` begins its execution in the standard EVM context, which is why compiling
`solc` artifacts is necessary. However, during test execution, the context can switch over to ZKsync in several ways.

When switching to the ZKsync context, the following operations are performed:

- All `persisted_accounts` storages are migrated to ZKsync storage.
- Any EVM bytecode deployed under the migrated accounts is replaced by its `zksolc` variant.
- Solidity globals such as `block.number` and `address.balance` will return ZKsync values even when the test begins in the EVM context.
- The original EVM context (including the block environment) is preserved in case the test needs to switch back from ZKsync.

### Switching to ZKsync

You can switch to the ZKsync context in the following ways:

#### CLI Flags

The `--zksync` flag compiles the sources for `zksolc` and automatically switches the
test execution to the ZKsync context. This flag is a shorthand for enabling two specific flags:

- `--zk-startup`: Switches to ZKsync on test startup.
- `--zk-compile`: Compiles the sources using `zksolc`.

In the following sections, we will cover key areas for working with foundry-zksync:

- **Compiling**: Learn the adjustments needed for `zksolc` to compile projects in ZKsync environments.

- **Deploying**: Understand the process of deploying contracts on ZKsync.

- **Testing**: Explore how to use `forge test` with the `--zksync` context, including test configurations and
strategies to ensure correct contract behavior in ZKsync’s execution environment.
