---
title: Introduction
description: Welcome to the ZKsync Docs.
---

::card-group
  ::card
  ---
  title: ZKsync 101
  icon: i-heroicons-academic-cap-solid
  to: /zksync-network/guides/quick-start
  ---
  If you're new to Web3, get started with a set of curated tutorials
  ::
  ::card
  ---
  title: Environment
  icon: i-heroicons-rocket-launch-solid
  to: /zksync-network/environment
  ---
  If you're familiar with Web3 and L2s, jump straight to the environment links
  ::
::

The **ZKsync Network** is a system of interconnected chains (rollups or validiums), also known as the **Elastic Network**.
ZKsync chains use cryptographic validity proofs to provide scalable and low-cost transactions on Ethereum.
The first chain in this network is **ZKsync Era**, a Layer 2
**[ZK rollup](/zksync-protocol/glossary#zk-rollup)**.

[See the full list of chains here](/zksync-network/environment).

In chains of the Elastic Network, computation is performed off-chain and most data is stored off-chain as well.
Transactions are bundled into batches before generating a validity proof.
As all validity proofs are proven on Ethereum, users enjoy the same security
warranties as in the L1.

ZKsync chains are designed to look and feel like Ethereum, but with a higher throughput and lower fees.
Just like on Ethereum, smart contracts are written in Solidity/Vyper and can be called using the same clients as in
other EVM-compatible chains.

You don't need to register a separate private key before using it;
the **ZKsync Network** supports existing Ethereum wallets out of the box.

## Main features
:check-icon Security inherited from Ethereum, with zero reliance on 3rd parties.

:check-icon Permissionless EVM-compatible smart contracts.

:check-icon Preserving key EVM features, such as smart contract composability.

:check-icon Standard Web3 API.

:check-icon State updates via transaction outputs (also known as state diffs) which provides significant cost savings
over transaction inputs.

:check-icon Native account abstraction with improvements over EIP4337 (implemented in Ethereum and other rollups).

You can find [more information about ZKsync Era in L2BEAT](https://l2beat.com/scaling/projects/zksync-era#stage).

## Developer experience

ZKsync chains are built to provide a similar developer experience as Ethereum.

:check-icon Smart contracts can be written in Solidity or Vyper.

:check-icon Use standard `solc` and `vyper` compilers for EVM bytecode execution via [the EVM Interpreter](../zksync-network/unique-features/evm-interpreter/evm-interpreter).

:check-icon Use custom compilers **[zksolc and
zkvyper](/zksync-protocol/compiler/toolchain)** to compile contracts to native EraVM bytecode for more efficient execution.

:check-icon Most contracts work out of the box so migrating projects is seamless.

:check-icon Use existing frameworks
like [Hardhat](/zksync-network/tooling/hardhat) and [Foundry](/zksync-network/tooling/foundry), libraries like
[Ethers](https://docs.ethers.org/v6/), [Viem](https://viem.sh/zksync), or
[web3.js](https://docs.web3js.org/), and tools like [theGraph](https://thegraph.com/),
[Thirdweb](https://thirdweb.com/zksync), or
[Chainlink](https://docs.chain.link/data-feeds/price-feeds/addresses?network=zksync&page=1).

:check-icon Web3 API compatibility enables support of most developer tools.

:check-icon Different **[tools for testing and debugging
locally](/zksync-network/tooling/local-setup/)**.

## User experience

Interacting with applications built on **the ZKsync Network** is seamless, cheap and fast.
On **ZKsync chains**:

- Transactions have instant confirmations and fast finality on L1.
- Transaction fees are extremely low ([average transaction costs](https://www.growthepie.xyz/fundamentals/transaction-costs)).
- Transaction fees can be conveniently paid with ERC20 tokens (e.g. USDC) thanks to
  **[native account abstraction and paymasters](/zksync-protocol/account-abstraction)**.
- Support for existing Ethereum-based wallets like Metamask, TrustWallet, Zerion, Rabby, etc.

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-cube-transparent-solid" color="blue"}
To add ZKsync Era to your wallet, see [Connect to ZKsync Era](/zksync-network/environment/zksync-era).
::
