---
title: FAQs
description: Frequently asked questions about ZKsync SSO.
---

## What login options are supported?

ZKsync SSO supports both logging in with passkeys and with an Externally Owned Account (EOA) where the private key is available.
It does not support logging in with a browser-based wallet extension.

## How secure is ZKsync SSO?

ZKsync SSO uses passkey authentication method to ensure that your account remains secure.
Private keys never leave your device, and biometric authentication adds an extra layer of security.

## Is ZKsync SSO free to integrate?

Yes, developers can integrate it into their applications without any licensing fees.

## Do users need to worry about transaction fees?

There are three points at which a transaction fee may apply:

**Account Creation and Recovery Setup:** Free for users.<br>
The first 1 million users can create accounts and set up recovery options without paying transaction fees, as ZKsync sponsors these fees.

**Session Creation:** When creating application sessions, users pay a transaction fee (roughly equivalent to an ERC-20 transfer fee on ZKsync Era).
Apps can sponsor these fees using a paymaster.

**Transaction Fees:** Users pay regular low transaction fees when using ZKsync Era. This is the case regardless of whether users use ZKsync SSO or not.
Apps can sponsor these fees using a paymaster, allowing users to transact without incurring any costs.

## How do I integrate ZKsync SSO into my application?

Developers can integrate ZKsync SSO by using the available SDKs for web applications. Mobile SDKs for iOS and Android are coming soon.
Refer to the [Getting Started Guide](/zksync-era/unique-features/zksync-sso/getting-started) for detailed instructions.

## Where can I find the deployed SSO contract addresses?

The deployed contract addresses for ZKsync Sepolia testnet are available in the [ZKsync SSO repository](https://github.com/matter-labs/zksync-sso/blob/main/packages/auth-server/stores/era-sepolia.json).

## What environments are supported?

ZKsync SSO currently supports web applications through its JavaScript SDK,
and mobile applications via the React Native and Swift SDKs.

### Web

**Supported Browsers:**

- **Google Chrome**
- **Safari**
- **Mozilla Firefox**
- **Microsoft Edge**
- **Opera**

See the full list of specific versions [here](https://caniuse.com/webauthn).
This broad browser support ensures a smooth user experience across various platforms.

### Mobile

The React Native SDK is now available for building React Native applications.
Native Swift and Kotlin SDKs are **coming soon** and will enable developers to incorporate ZKsync SSO features into native mobile applications.

### Coming Soon

Windows 10 users with [Windows Hello](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/tips/windows-hello) will
not be able to use PIN or facial recognition until RS256 support is added in a future module.
Until then, using a mobile device or a password manager will be required to create compatable passkeys on Windows 10.
The user may still see these options, but will be unable to create an account with the passkey on this platform.

## Have more questions?

Join our [GitHub Discussions](%%zk_git_repo_zksync-developers%%/discussions/)
to ask questions, share your experiences, and connect with the ZKsync community.
