---
title: Accounts
description: Get familiar with ZKsync SSO smart accounts.
---

## Account Modules

Developers can enhance the functionality of ZKsync SSO accounts by implementing compatible modules via smart contracts.
The module interface is based on [ERC-7579](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7579#modules)
to allow maximum flexibility while using ZKsync's powerful native account abstraction to developer overhead.

The existing passkey and session features are already implemented as modules,
and installed by default for every new account deployment.
Modules can be added or removed from the account, without having to migrate or upgrade the whole account.

You can contribute to the smart account modules available to ZKsync SSO users by
submitting a PR to the [`zksync-sso-clave-contracts`](https://github.com/matter-labs/zksync-sso-clave-contracts) repository.

Modules must implement the
[`IModuleValidator`](https://github.com/matter-labs/zksync-sso-clave-contracts/tree/main/src/interfaces/IModuleValidator.sol) interface.
The current implemented modules can be found in the [`validators` folder](https://github.com/matter-labs/zksync-sso-clave-contracts/tree/main/src/validators).

Looking for inspiration?
Take a look at the modules already created for [ERC-7579](https://erc7579.com/modules)

## Deploying an Account From a Registered Passkey

You can deploy a modular account from a [registered passkey](/zksync-network/unique-features/zksync-sso/passkeys#registering-a-new-passkey)
using the `deployModularAccount` method:

```ts
:code-import{filePath="sso/src/deployModularAccount.ts"}
```

### ECDSA Signer

You can authorize transactions for an account using an ECDSA signer.
The example below assumes an SSO account has already been deployed as shown in the example above.
The private key here must match one of the owner accounts defined when the account was deployed.

The `ecdsaClient` here can be used like a [`viem` wallet client](https://viem.sh/docs/clients/wallet) to send transactions.

```ts
:code-import{filePath="sso/src/ecdsa.ts"}
```

## Deploying Accounts in React Native

There are two methods available to create a new account and passkey pair: `registerAccount` and `registerAccountWithUniqueId`.

- `registerAccount` creates a random wallet address.
- `registerAccountWithUniqueId` creates a deterministic wallet address based on the deploy wallet private key and the user ID.

Both of these methods accept the same input argument types and return the same `Account` type:

```ts
interface RPInfo {
    name: string;
    id: RpId;
}

interface AccountInfo {
    name: string;
    userID: string;
    rp: RPInfo;
}

const registerAccountWithUniqueId = async (
    accountInfo: AccountInfo,
    challenge: string,
    config: Config
): Promise<Account>
```

See the [Getting Started](/zksync-network/unique-features/zksync-sso/getting-started) page for an example for how to use these methods.

For web3 native applications, generally `registerAccount` is recommended.
In this case, only the account address must be stored somewhere.
The account address cannot be derived in any way.

For web2 native applications that already have a username or email used to login,
`registerAccountWithUniqueId` can be used to create an address based on that account info.
In this case, the address can be derived from the userID using the `getAccountByUserId` method.

```ts
import { type Account, getAccountByUserId } from "react-native-zksync-sso";

const account: Account = await getAccountByUserId(uniqueAccountId, config);
```
