---
title: Overview
description: Explore the comprehensive guide to the zkSync Era JSON-RPC API, offering seamless Ethereum integration and advanced Layer 2 functionalities for developers.
---

Welcome to the zkSync Era API reference documentation! This page provides you with a high-level overview of our API capabilities and essential information.

zkSync Era seamlessly integrates with the Ethereum ecosystem. To achieve this integration,
we support not only the standard <a href="https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/apis/json-rpc/" target="_blank">Ethereum JSON-RPC API</a>
but also introduce L2-specific features that enhance functionality.

<!-- TODO: make icon larger -->
::callout{icon="i-heroicons-information-circle" color="amber"}
To ensure a seamless experience, we impose rate limits on both HTTPS and WebSocket APIs.
Generally, these limits are ample, ranging from 10 to 100 requests per second (RPS) per client.
::

## Mainnet

- **Network Name**: zkSync Era Mainnet
- **RPC URL**: https://mainnet.era.zksync.io
- **WebSocket URL**: wss://mainnet.era.zksync.io/ws
- **Chain ID**: 324
- **Currency Symbol**: ETH
- **Block Explorer URL**: https://explorer.zksync.io/

## Testnet

- **Network Name**: zkSync Era Testnet
- **RPC URL**: https://testnet.era.zksync.dev
- **WebSocket URL**: wss://testnet.era.zksync.dev/ws
- **Chain ID**: 280
- **Currency Symbol**: ETH
- **Block Explorer URL**: https://sepolia.explorer.zksync.io/

## API Collections

Explore our curated collections of API endpoints tailored for every need, from seamless Ethereum integrations to advanced debugging tools.
Embrace the full potential of zkSync Era and elevate your dApps to new heights. Discover, integrate, and innovate with our robust API offerings.

::card-group
  ::card
  ---
  title: Ethereum JSON-RPC API
  icon: i-simple-icons-ethereum
  to: /build/api-reference/ethereum-rpc
  ---
  Integrate effortlessly with full compatibility for the Ethereum JSON-RPC API.
  ::
  ::card
  ---
  title: zkSync JSON-RPC API
  icon: i-zksync-zksync-logo
  to: /build/api-reference/zks-rpc
  ---
  Unlock Layer 2 capabilities with our dedicated zkSync JSON-RPC API.
  ::
  ::card
  ---
  title: Debugging JSON-RPC API
  icon: i-heroicons-code-bracket-16-solid
  to: /build/api-reference/debug-rpc
  ---
  Simplify your development process with powerful debugging tools.
  ::
  ::card
  ---
  title: PubSub JSON-RPC
  icon: i-heroicons-signal-solid
  to: /build/api-reference/pub-sub-rpc
  ---
  Stay informed with real-time event subscriptions.
  ::
::
