---
title: Data Availability Considerations
description: Technical requirements for configuring DA validators when using ZKsync Gateway as a settlement layer.
---

When migrating to ZKsync Gateway, chains must ensure that their data availability (DA) configurations are compatible with ZKsync Gateway.
The requirements vary depending on the type of chain.

### Rollup Chains

Rollups using ZKsync Gateway must relay pubdata to Ethereum through the `L1Messenger` system contract.
Chains using the [standard pubdata format](https://github.com/matter-labs/era-contracts/blob/release-v27/docs/settlement_contracts/data_availability/rollup_da.md)
can use the [RelayedSLDAValidator](https://github.com/matter-labs/era-contracts/blob/release-v27/l1-contracts/contracts/state-transition/data-availability/RelayedSLDAValidator.sol).
This validator forwards data to Ethereum and restricts updates to authorized sources to prevent incorrect pubdata submission.

### Validium Chains

Validiums can reuse the [ValidiumL1DAValidator](https://github.com/matter-labs/era-contracts/blob/release-v27/l1-contracts/contracts/state-transition/data-availability/ValidiumL1DAValidator.sol)
previously deployed on Ethereum.
DA Validator contracts are available on ZKsync Gateway for different data availability solutions, and the chain’s DA configuration
must be updated to use the new deployment.

See the list of deployed DA validators [here](/zk-stack/running/validium#deployed-l1-da-validators).

### Chains with Custom Data Availability

Chains using custom data availability solutions must ensure their DA validation logic is compatible with ZKsync Gateway and
can be deployed and executed within the Gateway settlement layer.

These considerations determine how the chain’s data availability will function when settling on ZKsync Gateway instead of directly on Ethereum.
