---
title: Technical Architecture of the EVM Interpreter
description: Some details about the implementation of EVM interpretation
---

The **EVM Bytecode Interpreter** is implemented as a **system contract that interprets and executes EVM bytecode at runtime** within the EraVM environment.
While EVM execution is fully contained within the interpreter, it interacts with multiple **system contracts** to ensure correct behavior.

The main invariant that interpretation aims to preserve: behavior inside interpreted EVM environment (i.e. not only within one contract, but during
any sort of EVM <> EVM contracts interaction chain) is the same as it would’ve been on widespread EVM implementation (i.e. Geth).

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
The EVM environment is agnostic about EraVM.
::

For an overview of **how to deploy and execute EVM contracts**, refer to **[EVM Bytecode Deployment and Execution](./deployment-execution)**.
For an overview of **how EVM gas model is interpreted**, see **[EVM gas interpretation](./evm-gas-interpretation)**.
This page focuses on the **internal mechanics** of the interpreter, including gas management, context and data handling.

## Execution Model

When an EVM contract is called, the following steps occur:

1. **Versioned Bytecode Hash Check**
   - The system retrieves the contract’s **versioned hash** from `AccountCodeStorage`.
   - If the version is `0x02` (EVM contract), execution is routed through the **EVM Interpreter**.

1. **Bytecode Interpretation**
   - The interpreter loads the contract’s EVM bytecode.
   - It initializes execution context (**EVM stack, memory, execution frames context**).
   - The interpreter derives available amount of EVM gas from passed EraVM native gas (ergs).
   - The interpreter interprets and executes opcodes in a loop. Every opcode consumes interpreted EVM gas.
      Interpretation itself consumes native EraVM gas (ergs).
   - Execution continues until completion, error, or out-of-ergs condition.

1. **External Calls**
   - If external call to another EVM contract is requested, EVM interpreter pushes new frame in EvmGasManager and invokes new instance of
  the EVM interpreter for that contract.
   - If external call to EraVM contract is requested, EVM interpreter calls that contract directly (EraVM gas is derived from passed EVM gas).
  When that call returns or fails, EVM interpreter continues execution normally. Delegatecall to EraVM contracts is forbidden.

1. **Returning from EVM context**
   - If execution finalizes according to EVM rules, **returndata may be passed** to the caller (EraVM and EVM callers).
   - If execution fails unexpectedly for EVM (**Internal** revert on EraVM level, `OUT-OF-ERGS`), **the entire EVM call stack reverts**.
  This guarantees that EVM execution can be interpreted fully by EVM rules or reverted completely.

## Static calls

The static context is set off by EraVM for calls to EVM contracts. Interpreter gets info whether context should static or non-static from internal
call flags. This is needed because `EvmGasManager` need to perform writes to transient storage to interpret cold/warm access mechanics for
accounts and storage slots.

EVM interpreter guarantees that no state changes can occur if static context is requested. Additionally it forbids non-static calls from static environment.

## Gas And Call Frames Management

The **EvmGasManager** system contract is responsible for:

- **Tracking warm/cold storage and accounts accesses**.
- **Managing EVM call frames**.

This contract is used to temporarily store contextual information needed to interpret EVM bytecode.

See **[EVM Bytecode Deployment and Execution](./deployment-execution#deployment-from-an-evm-contract)** for a high-level explanation.

### Warm/Cold Storage Logic

- **First-time accesses are cold** (higher cost).
- **Subsequent accesses within the same transaction are warm** (lower cost).
- Warm/cold tracking is stored in **transient storage** and resets per transaction.

By default, the following addresses are considered hot:

- Called EVM contract
- msg.sender (caller of the EVM contract)
- tx.origin
- coinbase
- precompiles

### EVM Call Frames Management

| **Function** | **Purpose** |
|-------------|------------|
| `pushEVMFrame` | Stores gas and execution context before a call. |
| `consumeEVMFrame` | Retrieves gas and execution context at call entry. |
| `resetEVMFrame` | Cleans up the frame stack entry on failure. |

If an **EVM contract calls another EVM contract**, info about EVM gas is passed using entries in call frames stack. Additionally entries
keep static context flag if `staticcall` used.

## Context parameters

While most of the context parameters (`this`/`msg.sender`/`msg.value`, etc) are reused as is from EraVM, some are explicitly maintained by the `EvmInterpreter`:

- `gas` (as EVM gas model is interpreted for compatibility with Ethereum smart contracts).
- If context is static or not (more on it in the section about static context).
- The info about warm/cold slots and addresses is maintained by the `EvmGasManager` system contract.

## Calldata & returndata internals

EraVM contracts are agnostic about EVM interpretation (and vice versa). When an EraVM contract calls an EVM contract, it passes the calldata as-is,
and similarly, when an EVM contract returns data to an EraVM contract, the returndata is also returned "as-is" without modification.

When one EVM contract calls another, it also passes the calldata as-is. Additional context data like gas and isStatic flag managed by the **EvmGasManager**.

However, internal returndata logic is more complex. When an EVM contract returns data to another EVM contract, a tuple of `(gas_left, returndata)`
is returned under the hood. This is needed to pass info about remaining EVM gas between EVM execution frames.

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
From EraVM and EVM smart contracts point of view calldata and returndata are used as is and fully compatible.
::

The EVM interpreter internally performs technical calls to system contracts. Information about returndata from the last interpreted call is stored
in reserved pointer and does not change after these additional technical calls.

## Contract Deployment Process

**For a high-level overview of EVM contract deployment, see** **[EVM Bytecode Deployment and Execution](./deployment-execution#contract-deployment)**.

Internally, deployment of an EVM contract from another EVM contract follows these steps:

1. The interpreter calls `precreateEvmAccountFromInterpreter` in **ContractDeployer** for address derivation, increment of nonce and checks.
2. A **temporary bytecode hash** is assigned to mark the contract as an EVM contract.
3. The interpreter executes in **constructor** mode by interpreting the passed calldata as `initcode`.
4. The final contract bytecode is returned by the interpreter and stored.

## Summary of system contracts

| **Component** | **Purpose** |
|--------------|------------|
| **EVM Interpreter** | Interprets and executes EVM bytecode. |
| **EvmGasManager** | Handles EVM call frames context data. |
| **ContractDeployer** | Deploys EraVM and EVM contracts and derives addresses. |
| **AccountCodeStorage** | Stores EraVM-specific versioned hashes of bytecodes. |
| **EvmHashesStorage** | Stores hashes of EVM bytecodes (keccak hash). |
| **EvmPredeploysManager** | Used to deploy important EVM contracts which are usually deployed with presigned transactions. |

## Deeper details

For more details, please refer to the system contract implementations and technical documentation in the era-contracts repository.

## Next Steps

- Learn about **[EraVM ↔ EVM contract interactions](./era-evm-interactions)**.
- Review **[differences from Ethereum (Cancun)](./evm-differences)**.
- Explore **[the list of pre deployed contracts](./pre-deployed-contracts)**.
- Check how **[EVM gas interpretation](./evm-gas-interpretation)** works.
