---
title: FAQs
description: Frequently asked questions about ZKsync SSO.
---

## What login options are supported?

Currently, only login with passkeys is supported in ZKsync SSO.
We are working on adding support for logging in with an Externally Owned Account (EOA) in the future.

## What are passkeys?

Passkeys are digital credentials that eliminate the need for traditional passwords by using asymmetric cryptography for authentication.
They consist of a key pair:

- **Private Key**: Stored securely on the user's device (e.g., in a secure enclave or Trusted Platform Module) and never leaves the device.
- **Public Key**: Shared with the relying party (ZKsync SSO Auth Server and associated smart contracts) during registration.

Passkeys are based on the [WebAuthn](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn-2/) API and the FIDO2 standards,
which support various authenticators like built-in device biometrics (fingerprint sensors, facial recognition)
or external hardware security keys (YubiKey, SoloKeys). This ensures a high level of security and a seamless user experience.

## What recovery options are available if I lose my passkey?

In case you lose your passkeys, ZKsync SSO provides several methods to recover your account:

### Multiple Devices with Passkey Synchronization

You can synchronize your passkeys across multiple devices using services like iCloud Keychain for Apple devices or similar services on other platforms.
This means if one device is lost, your passkeys are still accessible on other synchronized devices.

<!--

### Adding Another Passkey (*coming soon*)

You will be able to register a new device by adding a new passkey to your account. This typically involves verifying your identity on the new device,
after which the new passkey is securely associated with your account.

### Recovery via Externally Owned Account (EOA) (*coming soon*)

You will soon be able to link an Externally Owned Account (EOA) to your ZKsync SSO account. If passkeys are lost,
you can recover access by authenticating with your EOA, providing an additional layer of security and recovery options.

### Recovery via OAuth (*coming soon*)

The OAuth Recovery ERC-7579 module enables you to set up account recovery through OAuth tokens associated with your existing Web2 logins like
Gmail, Facebook, or X (formerly Twitter). This allows you to regain access by logging in with your familiar social media or email accounts.
-->
## How secure is ZKsync SSO?

ZKsync SSO uses passkey authentication method to ensure that your account remains secure.
Private keys never leave your device, and biometric authentication adds an extra layer of security.

## Is ZKsync SSO free to integrate?

Yes, developers can integrate it into their applications without any licensing fees.

## How do I integrate ZKsync SSO into my application?

Developers can integrate ZKsync SSO by using the available SDKs for web applications. Mobile SDKs for iOS and Android are coming soon.
Refer to the [Getting Started Guide](/build/zksync-sso/getting-started) for detailed instructions.

## Have more questions?

Join our [GitHub Discussions](%%zk_git_repo_zksync-developers%%/discussions/)
to ask questions, share your experiences, and connect with the ZKsync community.
