---
title: Features
description: Learn about the features of ZKsync SSO.
---

## Passkeys Authentication

Passkeys are a core feature supported by ZKSync SSO that enable secure, passwordless authentication for users interacting with applications on the ZK Chain.

Biometric authentication methods like FaceID and fingerprint recognition are supported by ZKsync SSO, utilizing the `secp256r1` elliptic curve.

## Sessions

A session is a temporary, limited-permission access to the account through a configurable policy.

Sessions are explicitly approved by account owners and are managed via session keys.

A session key owner has the ability to send a *certain restricted set* of transactions from the account without requiring the account owner’s signature.

### Design

Each allowed `(address, selector)` pair will have an assigned `FunctionPolicy` with all the applied constraints.

`FunctionPolicy` will have a list of constraints on its arguments, as well as optional cumulative limits and allowances.

```solidity
// signer => session
mapping(address => SessionPolicy) sessions;

struct SessionPolicy {
		// (target, selector) => function policy
		mapping(address => mapping(bytes4 => FunctionPolicy)) policy;
		// timestamp when this session expires
		uint256 expiry;
		// to close the session early, flip this flag
		bool isOpen;
}

struct FunctionPolicy {
    // this flag is needed, as otherwise, an empty FunctionPolicy (default mapping entry)
    // would mean no constraints
    bool isAllowed;
    uint256 maxValuePerUse;
    LimitUsage valueUsage;
    Constraint[] paramConstraints;
}

struct Constraint {
    Condition condition;
    uint64 offset;
    bytes32 refValue;
    // Lifetime cumulative limit (optional)
    LimitUsage usage;
    // Cumulative limit per time period (optional)
    Allowance allowance;
}

struct LimitUsage {
    bool isLimited;
    uint256 limit;
    uint256 used;
}

struct Allowance {
    bool isLimited;
    uint256 timePeriod;
    uint256 limit;
    // period => used that period
    mapping(uint256 => uint256) used;
}

enum Condition {
    EQUAL,
    GREATER_THAN,
    LESS_THAN,
    GREATER_THAN_OR_EQUAL,
    LESS_THAN_OR_EQUAL,
    NOT_EQUAL,
    NOT_CONSTRAINED
}
```
[Inspiration for this design](https://github.com/erc7579/smartsessions/blob/main/contracts/external/policies/UniActionPolicy.sol)

## Spend Limits

**Spend limits** define the maximum amount of a specific token that can be spent during a session. They are an integral part of the session's policy and provide granular control over:

- Token Type: ERC-20
- Limit Amount: The maximum amount that can be transacted.

When an application requests a session, it specifies the desired spend limits, which the account owner can approve. This ensures that even if the session key is compromised, the potential loss is capped.

## Account Recovery

There are several methods available to users to recover their account:

**Multiple Devices with Passkey Synchronization**

Users can synchronize their passkeys across multiple devices using services like iCloud Keychain for Apple devices or similar services on other platforms. This means if one device is lost, the passkeys are still accessible on other synchronized devices.

**Adding another passkey - *coming soon***

Users can register a new device by adding a new passkey to their account. This typically involves verifying their identity on the new device, after which the new passkey is securely associated with their account.

**Recovery via Externally Owned Account (EOA) - *coming soon***

Users will soon be able to link an EOA to their ZKSync SSO account. If passkeys are lost, they can recover access by authenticating with their EOA, providing an additional layer of security and recovery option.

**Recovery via OAuth 2.0 - *coming soon***

OAuth Recovery ERC-7579 module enables users to setup an account recovery through OAuth tokens associated with their existing Web2 logins like Gmail, Facebook, or X (formerly Twitter). This allows users to regain access by logging in with their familiar social media or email accounts.

## User Dashboard

ZKSync SSO provides a dashboard where users can conveniently manage their accounts through a web interface. This dashboard offers several key features:

- view their asset balances across all the ZK Chains
- add or remove passkeys or devices
- configure account recovery options.
- view all active sessions connected to their account and terminate unwanted sessions
- view their transaction history

## Modular
Developers can enhance the functionality of ZKSync SSO by implementing ERC-7579 modules. [ERC-7579](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7579) is a standard that allows for modular extensions to smart contract wallets, enabling custom features to be added seamlessly.
