---
title: Configure the SDK
description: Get started with the zksync-easy-onramp SDK
---

You need to create an initial configuration to start using the SDK in your app. This
configuration defines the settings and data required for the SDK to function properly.

```ts
import { createOnRampConfig } from 'zksync-easy-onramp';

createOnRampConfig({
  integrator: "ZKsync Easy OnRamp Demo",
  provider: EVM({...}) // Configure wallet provider for LiFI
},);
```

## Parameters

`apiUrl` (string, optional)

The base URL for the ZKsync Easy On-Ramp API. It is by default set to the production URL for the
API. It can be changed, for example, to test with a staging URL.

`integrator` (string, required)

The SDK requires an integrator option as a means to identify and ensure that the config has been
initialized. Currently it is not being used track anything and is not stored on the API server.

`services` (ServicesConfig, optional)

The list of services to use when requesting quotes for users. If no services are provided only the
default services will be used which may be rate-limited. Define the service with a boolean or a
string for the public API key to use.

`provider` (SDKProvider, required)

A provider configuration that allows the SDK to execute transactions and signing with a wallet
client provided by the app. This is required to enable executing quotes that have transactions.

`dev` (boolean, optional)

A development flag to use sandbox testing environments when developing. This will use sandbox
environments from fiat on-ramp services. LI.FI does not have a sandbox environment for swapping
tokens, instead we create a cheap swap from USDT to the requested token.

## Update SDK configuration

The SDK provides methods to get and update the configuration after you've initialized. Import the
global config object and use the methods available.

```ts
import { config } from 'zksync-easy-onramp';
```

### Configuration methods

`get()`

Returns the current SDK configuration.

`set(configOptions: Partial<SDKConfig>)`

Updates the SDK configuration with the provided config options.
