---
title: Request Quotes
description: Request quotes for the best on-ramping process onto ZKsync
---

This guide will demonstrate how to make a request to receive a list of quotes from the SDK.

## How to request quotes

The following is an example of the minimum needed to request a list of quotes.

```ts
import { fetchQuotes } from 'zksync-easy-onramp';

// fetching quotes for $25 USD for Ether on ZKsync
const quotes = await fetchQuotes({
   toAddress: "0xE6a8bEEFC1Bca3046235e0d1f8db805734949024",
   fiatAmount: 25,
   fiatCurrency: "USD",
   chainId: 324,
   toToken: "0x000000000000000000000000000000000000800A", // Ether on ZKsync
});
```

The `fetchQuotes` method will return an array of quotes containing the necessary information to
execute the quote.

### Parameters

- `toAddress` (Address, required)

    The address to send the completed transaction to on the destination chain.

- `fiatAmount` (number, optional)

    The value in fiat to spend if purchasing tokens with fiat.

- `fiatCurrency` (SupportedFiatCurrencies, optional)

    The fiat code (e.g. "USD") if the fiat amount is specified.

- `chainId` (number, required)

    The destination chain's ID where the tokens will be deposited.

- `toToken` (Address, required)

    The token contract address on the destination chain. This address must correspond with the specified
`chainId`.

- `amount` (number, optional)

    The amount of the requested token to purchase. Use this instead of the `fiatAmount` to receive
quotes based on the amount of tokens the user wants to purchase.

- `providerTypes` (array of QuoteProviderType, optional)

    Specify a list of provider types to customize the quotes returned.

- `paymentMethods` (array of PaymentMethod, optional)

    Include an array of payment methods to customize the type of quotes returned.

- `routeType` ('"buy"' | '"sell"', required)

    Currently only the `"buy"` option is available. Specify what type of action you want to do with a
quote.

<!-- `country` (string, optional) -->