---
title: Upgrades and migrations
description: Learn about recent upgrades and migrations for ZKsync.
---

Learn about recent upgrades, breaking changes, and migrations in the ZKsync ecosystem here. For more details, you can check out the
[`CHANGELOG.md`](https://github.com/matter-labs/zksync-era/blob/main/core/CHANGELOG.md) and
[releases](https://github.com/matter-labs/zksync-era/releases) for the `zksync-era` repository.

## 2024

### September 2024

#### Shared Bridge Upgrade – Friday, Sept 6

- We will be introducing a minor change to the BridgeHub contracts which allows the Admin role to add custom base tokens to the system.
Previously only the owner of the contract was able to do this.
- The upgrade is a required step to distinguish the owner and admin role.

### August 2024

#### Shared Bridge Upgrade – Monday, Aug 26

- We [introduced an admin role](https://github.com/matter-labs/era-contracts/pull/727/files) in the Shared Bridge contract
to advance toward decentralized governance.
- The admin is exclusively responsible for nominating L2 bridge counterparts for newly deployed chains.

#### Elastic Chain 24.2 Upgrade - Tuesday, Aug 6

- Introduces the new [`ChainAdmin` contract interface](https://github.com/matter-labs/era-contracts/pull/598/files), which has admin rights over:
  - ZKsync Era Diamond Proxy
  - BridgeHub
  - State Transition Manager
- `ChainAdmin` acts as a “sovereign” wrapper, allowing each ZK Chain to customize configurations like fee parameters and upgrade processes.
- The State Transition Manager (STM) contract now emits events with more detailed upgrade data accessible to other ZK Chains.
- Please note: Version 24.2 is a patch upgrade, serving as a precursor to the upcoming governance upgrades.
