---
title: Getting started
description: Learn to build and deploy smart contracts on ZKsync Era.
---

Welcome to ZKsync 101 for deploying smart contracts on ZKsync!
In this guide, we'll walk you through the process of creating and deploying a simple smart contract that creates a crowdfunding campaign for Zeek.

By the end of the series, you will learn integral pieces that will
help you become a great developer on ZKsync! You will learn how to:

:check-icon Initialize a new project with ZKsync CLI.

:check-icon Deploy contracts on ZKsync Era using Hardhat.

:check-icon Test your contracts with Hardhat.

:check-icon Implement upgradable patterns for your contracts.

:check-icon Implement a Paymaster to simplify transactions for your users.

---

## Install ZKsync CLI

Our 101 series utilizes ZKsync CLI to help you develop and interact with ZKsync from your local machine.
We will use the full features of ZKsync CLI to build and deploy contracts in a local ZKsync Era node.

### Prerequisites

- [Node.js v18 or newer](https://nodejs.org/en)
- [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/)
- [Git](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/getting-started-with-git/set-up-git)

Open a terminal and install ZKsync CLI with the following command:

```bash
npm install -g zksync-cli
```

## Create the ZKsync 101 project

We have a template available for you to get started with quickly in the ZKsync 101 series.
You can choose to use either EVM or EraVM to compile and deploy to ZKsync:

:display_partial{path="/_partials/_eravm_vs_evm"}

<br>

::content-switcher
---
items: [{
  label: 'EVM',
  partial: 'zksync-101/_getting_started/_evm'
}, {
  label: 'EraVM',
  partial: 'zksync-101/_getting_started/_era-vm'
}]
---
::

After you run the `create` command, the CLI will download and install packages for the project.
You should see a success message and instructions to get started with your project.

---

## Next Steps

You should now have a fully working local environment to build new projects on ZKsync!

- Continue to the next step, [Hello ZKsync!](/zksync-era/guides/zksync-101/hello-zksync) to begin the 101 series
  on building a crowdfunding campaign for Zeek.
- This setup provides you everything you need to build on ZKsync Era.
- You can skip this 101 series to go on to [creating your own projects using ZKsync CLI](/zksync-era/tooling/zksync-cli/creating-projects).
