---
title: Contract Factory
description: Learn how to deploy and manage multiple smart contracts on ZKsync using a contract factory.
---

This second ZKsync 101 installment advances from your introductory exploration of smart contract deployment to dive into the utility of contract factories.
Through this guide, you'll learn how to streamline the deployment of multiple crowdfunding campaigns using a single contract factory, leveraging the
foundational `CrowdfundingCampaign` contract in the first guide.

:check-icon Advance your ZKsync development journey with contract factories.

:check-icon Construct a contract factory to create multiple crowdfunding campaigns.

:check-icon Seamlessly deploy your contract factory on ZKsync Era using Hardhat.

Let's explore the efficiency and scalability that contract factories bring.

## What is a contract factory?

A contract factory is a design pattern that allows for the creation of multiple
contract instances from a single "factory" contract. It's essentially a contract
that creates other contracts, streamlining and organizing the deployment of
numerous similar contracts efficiently.

---

## Setup the project

Make sure to go through the setup provided in the initial [Getting started](/zksync-era/guides/zksync-101) section.
You will have downloaded the 101 project through ZKsync CLI `create` and started up a local in memory node for development.

If you haven't started up your local in memory node or you're not sure, run the following:

```bash
zksync-cli dev restart
```

## Compile the contracts

This section will focus on compiling and deploying the `CrowdfundingFactory.sol`
contract that is provided under the [`/contracts/2-contract-factory` directory][crowdfunding-factory-sol].

The `CrowdfundingFactory.sol`contract will be used to deploy multiple instances of
the `CrowdfundingCampaign.sol` contract from the previous guide.
This contract factory approach streamlines the deployment of crowdfunding campaigns,
making it efficient to launch and manage multiple campaigns.

The `CrowdfundingFactory` contract automates the creation and oversight of
`CrowdfundingCampaign` contracts, each with their own distinct funding goals.
The factory contract features:

- **Campaign Creation**: Utilizes the `createCampaign` method to initiate a new
`CrowdfundingCampaign` contract. This function takes a `fundingGoal` as an argument,
deploys a new campaign contract with this goal, and tracks the created campaign in the
`campaigns` array.
- **Campaign Tracking**: The `getCampaigns` method offers a view into all the campaigns
created by the factory, allowing for easy access and management of multiple crowdfunding
initiatives.

Run the compile script from your project in the terminal:

```bash [npm]
npm run compile
```

### Deploy CrowdfundingCampaigns via the CrowdfundingFactory

This section outlines the steps to deploy the `CrowdfundingCampaign` contract
using our new `CrowdfundingFactory`.

The deployment script is located at [`/deploy/2-contract-factory/deploy.ts`][deploy-script].

The deploy script:

- deploys a single `CrowdfundingFactory`.
- saves an instance of the deployed factory to `factoryContract`.
  This gives us access to the factory's functionalities.
- The `createCampaign` method is called on this instance to create
  and deploy a new crowdfunding campaign contract.

Run the deployment command.

```bash [npm]
npm run deploy:crowdfunding-factory
```

Upon successful deployment, you'll receive output detailing the deployment process,
including the contract address, source, and encoded constructor arguments:

```bash
Starting deployment process of "CrowdfundingFactory"...
Estimated deployment cost: 0.0002500236 ETH

"CrowdfundingFactory" was successfully deployed:
 - Contract address: <0xFACTORY_CONTRACT_ADDRESS>
 - Contract source: contracts/CrowdfundFactory.sol:CrowdfundingFactory
 - Encoded constructor arguments: 0x

✅ Deployment and campaign creation complete!
```

## Create another campaign with ZKsync CLI

We've got one crowdfunding campaign created from the deployment script,
let's create another through ZKsync CLI!

Run the following command:

```bash
zksync-cli contract write \
--chain in-memory-node \
--contract <0xFACTORY_CONTRACT_ADDRESS> \
--pk 0x7726827caac94a7f9e1b160f7ea819f172f7b6f9d2a97f992c38edeab82d4110
```

The CLI will prompt you with a few questions.
We want to call the method `createCampaign(uint256 fundingGoal)`
and provide a funding goal in wei:

```bash
? Enter method to call createCampaign(uint256 fundingGoal)
? Provide method arguments:
? [1/1] fundingGoal (uint256) 200000000000000000
```

Now that we've created a second crowdfunding campaign,
let's check the list of campaigns!

Run the following command from within your project directory.

```bash
zksync-cli contract read \
--chain in-memory-node \
--contract <0xFACTORY_CONTRACT_ADDRESS> \
--abi artifacts-zk/contracts/2-contract-factory/CrowdfundingFactory.sol/CrowdfundingFactory.json
```

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-information-circle" color="blue"}
We pass the ABI in to help decode the output.
Without the ABI, the CLI will return the raw response.
::

The CLI will prompt with a list of the available methods from the contract.
Navigate with the arrow keys and press **Enter** on `getCampaigns() view returns (address[])`.

The ClI returns the method's response in raw format along with the decoded format
because we passed in the ABI.

You should see two addresses in the decoded method response, the first created from
the deploy script and the second for the campaign you created with ZKsync CLI!

```bash
✔ Method response (raw): 0x000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000002000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000020000000000000000000000009bf2281f53847387e1d8b5645cfcfbea576c4397000000000000000000000000ca55c6bbb6b122058ed742c33859f3621bc8030c
✔ Decoded method response: 0x9bf2281F53847387e1d8b5645cFCfbea576c4397,0xca55c6BBB6B122058Ed742C33859F3621bc8030c
```

## Takeaways

- **Contract Factories:** Utilizing contract factories significantly streamlines
the deployment process, allowing for the creation of multiple instances of a
contract, like the `CrowdfundingCampaign`, with varied parameters.
- **Scalability and Management:** Contract factories offer a scalable solution to manage
numerous contract instances, enhancing project organization and efficiency.
- **Event-Driven Insights:** The `CampaignCreated` event in the factory contract provides
a transparent mechanism to track each crowdfunding campaign's deployment, useful for
off-chain monitoring and interaction.

## Next steps

With the contract factory in your ZKsync development arsenal, you're set to elevate
your smart contract projects. Here's how you can further your journey:

- **Contract Testing:** Progress to the next guide focused on [testing your contracts](/zksync-era/guides/zksync-101/testing).
Ensuring the reliability and security of your `CrowdfundingCampaign` through
comprehensive tests is critical.
- **Advanced ZKsync Integrations:** Explore deeper into ZKsync's ecosystem by
implementing features like account abstraction and paymasters to enhance user
experience and contract flexibility.
- **Community Engagement and Contribution:** Join the vibrant [ZKsync developer community][zksync-community].
Participate in forums, Discord, or GitHub discussions. Sharing insights, asking queries,
and contributing can enrich the ecosystem and your understanding of ZKsync.

[crowdfunding-factory-sol]: https://github.com/matter-labs/zksync-contract-templates/blob/main/templates/101/contracts/2-contract-factory/CrowdfundingFactory.sol
[deploy-script]: https://github.com/matter-labs/zksync-contract-templates/blob/main/templates/101/deploy/2-contract-factory/deploy.ts
[zksync-community]: /build/resources/community-channels
