---
title: Testing
description: Discover how to effectively test smart contracts on ZKsync Era ecosystem.
---

Welcome back to our ZKsync 101 series, your fast-track to ZKsync development! In this
third guide, we transition from deploying and managing contracts to the critical phase
of testing. This guide will walk you through the steps to ensure your `CrowdfundingCampaign`
contract, introduced in our first guide and efficiently deployed through contract factories
in the second, work flawlessly.

:check-icon Elevate your ZKsync toolkit with robust contract testing techniques.

:check-icon Craft comprehensive tests for your `CrowdfundingCampaign` to ensure reliability and security.

:check-icon Use Hardhat to write and run tests, ensuring your campaigns are ready.

## Setup the project

Make sure to go through the setup provided in the initial [Getting started](/zksync-era/guides/zksync-101) section.
You will have downloaded the 101 project through ZKsync CLI `create`.
Since we are using `hardhat-zksync` for testing, you do not need to have the
in memory anvil-zksync node running for this section.

If your local `anvil-zksync` node is running, stop it with the following command:

```bash
zksync-cli dev stop
```

## `hardhat-zksync-node`

Testing contracts requires a more structured setup.
We'll use `hardhat-zksync-node` which is a part of the `hardhat-zksync` package to run tests against its own implementation
of the in memory node.

Within the `hardhat.config.ts`, you'll observe the `zksync` flag set to `true` under the
`hardhat` network, indicating the integration with ZKsync's testing environment.

```typescript [hardhat.config.ts]
const config: HardhatUserConfig = {
  defaultNetwork: "inMemoryNode"
  networks: {
    ...
    hardhat: {
      zksync: true,
    },
    ...
  }
  ...
}
```

Your project has npm scripts for testing that set the `--network` to `"hardhat"`.

Secondly within the `hardhat.config.ts`, you'll observe the importing of
`@nomicfoundation/hardhat-chai-matchers`. This plugin provides Hardhat with an extended
suite of assertion methods tailored for contract testing, significantly improving the testing
toolkit available for your project.

```typescript
import "@nomicfoundation/hardhat-chai-matchers";
```

---

## Compile the `CrowdfundingCampaign` contract

Now that our setup is complete, it's time to focus on the core of this
guide - testing our `CrowdfundingCampaign.sol` contract.

Thorough testing involves scrutinizing every function and aspect of our contract,
including potential failure scenarios. In this guide, we'll focus in on the `contribute`
method to ensure it's tested.

To compile the contracts in your project, run the following command:

```bash [npm]
npm run compile
```

---

## Test `CrowdfundingCampaign`

This section describes testing the `CrowdfundingCampaign.sol` contract.
Let's review the contract at [`test/1-hello-zksync/CrowdfundingCampaign.test.ts`][crowdfunding-campaign-test]

- **Initialization**: Each test case initializes with fresh contract instances in the `beforeEach`
  and predefined rich wallet accounts to simulate various contributors and the contract owner.
- **Deployment**: The `CrowdfundingCampaign` contract is deployed using
  the `deployContract` utility, setting a specific funding goal for each test scenario.

**`contribute` Method Tests:**

- **Zero Contributions**: Verifies that the contract correctly rejects contribution attempts
  with zero value, ensuring the integrity of the contribution process.
- **Funds Aggregation**: Tests the contract's ability to accurately aggregate contributions
  from multiple addresses and update the `totalFundsRaised` accordingly.
- **Goal Achievement**: Checks for the `GoalReached` event emission upon meeting the funding goal,
  confirming the contract's responsiveness to achieving its set target.

Run the tests with the following command:

```bash [npm]
npm run test:crowdfunding-campaign
```

Upon completion, the test suite will provide a summary of all executed tests,
indicating their success or failure:

```bash
  CrowdfundingCampaign
    contribute
      ✔ should reject contributions of 0
      ✔ should aggregate contributions in totalFundsRaised (150ms)
      ✔ should emit GoalReached event when funding goal is met (81ms)
    withdrawFunds
      ✔ should revert if called by a non-owner
      ✔ should revert if funding goal hasn't been reached
      ✔ should transfer the funds to the owner when funds have been raised (229ms)
    getFundingGoal
      ✔ should return the correct funding goal
    getTotalFundsRaised
      ✔ should return 0 when no contributions have been made


  8 passing (2s)
```

🎉 Congratulations! Your `CrowdfundingCampaign` contract
has been thoroughly tested and is ready for action.

## Takeaways

- **Testing**: Understanding contract testing is important for ensuring the reliability and security of your smart contracts
on ZKsync. Proper testing safeguards against unforeseen errors and vulnerabilities.
- **Comprehensive Coverage**: Achieving comprehensive test coverage, including both positive and negative testing
scenarios, is essential for a robust smart contract. This guide emphasized the `contribute` method,
but testing should encompass all aspects of your contract.
- **Tooling Efficiency**: Leveraging Hardhat for testing provides a streamlined and efficient workflow.
These tools offer powerful features and plugins, like `@nomicfoundation/hardhat-chai-matchers`,
that enhance the testing process.

## Next Steps

With a solid foundation in contract testing, you're well-equipped to advance your ZKsync
development journey. Consider the following steps to further your expertise:

- **Upgradeability**: Dive into the [Upgradeability guide](/zksync-era/guides/zksync-101/upgrading) focusing on contract upgradeability.
Learning to make your contracts upgradeable will enable you to update and improve your smart contracts
over time without losing state or funds.
- **Advanced ZKsync Integrations:** Explore deeper into ZKsync's ecosystem by
implementing features like account abstraction and paymasters to enhance user
experience and contract flexibility.
- **Community Engagement and Contribution:** Join the vibrant ZKsync developer community.
Participate in forums, Discord, or GitHub discussions. Sharing insights, asking queries,
and contributing can enrich the ecosystem and your understanding of ZKsync.

[crowdfunding-campaign-test]: https://github.com/matter-labs/zksync-contract-templates/blob/main/templates/101/test/1-hello-zksync/CrowdfundingCampaign.test.ts
