---
title: Upgradability
description: Learn to make smart contracts upgradeable within the ZKsync ecosystem.
---

In this fourth installment for ZKsync 101, we embark on a journey through contract upgradeability,
an important aspect for maintaining and enhancing smart contracts over time. This guide will
lead you through the strategies and practices for making the `CrowdfundingCampaign` contract **upgradeable**.

:check-icon Harness advanced techniques for contract upgradeability in ZKsync.

:check-icon Implement upgradeable patterns for the `CrowdfundingCampaign` to ensure long-term adaptability and improvement.

:check-icon Leverage tools and best practices in ZKsync to facilitate seamless contract upgrades.

## Setup the project

Make sure to go through the setup provided in the initial [Getting started](/zksync-era/guides/zksync-101) section.
You will have downloaded the 101 project through ZKsync CLI `create` and started up a local in-memory node for development.

If you haven't started up your local in-memory node or you're not sure, run the following:

```bash
zksync-cli dev restart
```

---

Select your preferred upgrade mechanism:

::content-switcher
---
items: [{
  label: 'Transparent',
  partial: '_upgrading/_transparent_proxy_contract_upgradability'
}, {
  label: 'Beacon',
  partial: '_upgrading/_beacon_proxy_contract_upgradability'
}, {
  label: 'UUPS',
  partial: '_upgrading/_uups_contract_upgradability'
}]
---
::

## Takeaways

- **Upgradeability:** The guide highlights the critical aspect of smart contract upgradeability, introducing techniques
for using transparent, beacon, and UUPS proxies.
This ensures your contracts remain adaptable, allowing for seamless updates to business logic or enhancements in efficiency.

- **Flexibility:** Emphasizing flexibility, the guide demonstrates how upgradable
contracts maintain continuity of state and fund security, even as underlying
functionalities evolve. This approach provides a resilient framework for your dApps to grow and adapt over time.

## Next Steps

- **Exploring Paymasters:** Continue on to the next guide focused on [using paymasters](/zksync-era/guides/zksync-101/paymaster)
with your smart contracts. Paymasters abstract gas payments in transactions,
offering new models for transaction fee management and enhancing user experience in dApps.
- **Advanced ZKsync Integrations:** Explore deeper into ZKsync's ecosystem by
implementing features like account abstraction and paymasters to enhance user
experience and contract flexibility.
- **Community Engagement and Contribution:** Join the vibrant [ZKsync developer community][zksync-community].
Participate in forums, Discord, or GitHub discussions. Sharing insights, asking queries,
and contributing can enrich the ecosystem and your understanding of ZKsync.

[zksync-community]: /build/resources/community-channels
