---
title: Interop Messages
description: A guide for sending and verifying interop messages.
---

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-information-circle" color="blue"}
The `InteropClient` is only available on v6.
::

Interop messaging enables sending and verifying messages across ZKsync chains via ZKsync Gateway.
It is the first phase of universal interoperability for the Elastic Network.

An interop message consists of arbitrary data and has two simple properties:

1. Anyone can send a message.
1. Anyone can verify that a given message was successfully sent on some chain.

The message itself has no destination chain or address.
It’s simply a payload created by a user or contract that gets broadcast.
There is no expiration for when messages can be verified.

Messages can only be sent and verified on ZKsync chains that use ZKsync Gateway.
To set up a local multichain testing environment with Gateway, check out the [Running ZKsync Gateway locally guide](/zk-stack/running/gateway-settlement-layer).

Before verifying a message, the transaction that the message was sent in must be executed in a batch,
and the interop root must be updated on the target chain.
The full flow for sending and verifying a message looks like this:

1. Send the message.
1. Check that the message transaction is fully executed.
1. Check that the gateway proof is ready.
1. Check that the interop root is updated on the target chain.
1. Verify the message.

## Sending a message

You can use the `InteropClient` along with the `sendMessage` method to send any message.
The method accepts either a string or a `BytesLike` value, and returns the transaction hash.

```ts
:code-import{filePath="hardhat-sol/scripts/interop/send-message.ts"}
```

### Sending a message from a smart contract

To send a message from a smart contract, you can use the `sendToL1` method on the `L1Messenger` contract.

```solidity
:code-import{filePath="hardhat-sol/contracts/InteropSendMessage.sol"}
```

## Checking the execution status

To check the execution status of a message, you can use the `getMessageStatus` method.
In order to verify a message, the status must first be `EXECUTED`.

```ts
:code-import{filePath="hardhat-sol/scripts/interop/check-status.ts"}
```

## Checking if the interop root is updated

In order to verify a message, the interop root must be updated on the target chain.
To check if the interop root is ready, you can use the `getGwBlockForBatch` `waitForGatewayInteropRoot` methods.

```ts
:code-import{filePath="hardhat-sol/scripts/interop/check-interop-root.ts"}
```

## Verifying a Message

You can either verify a message using the SDK or onchain inside a smart contract.

### Offchain Verification

You can verify a message directly using the SDK by calling the `verifyMessage` method on the `InteropClient`.

```ts
:code-import{filePath="hardhat-sol/scripts/interop/verify-message.ts"}
```

To verify a message on a local chain,
you must also send some transactions on the target chain in order to create a new batch so that the interop root gets updated.
You can see an example of this below under "Local chains example".

### Onchain Verification

To verify a message inside a smart contract,
you can fetch the input args for `proveL2MessageInclusionShared` using the `getVerificationArgs` method.

### Testnet example

```ts
:code-import{filePath="hardhat-sol/scripts/interop/get-verification-args.ts"}
```

### Local chains example

To verify a message on a local chain,
you must also send some transactions on the target chain in order to create a new batch so that the interop root gets updated.
You can see an example of this below:

```ts
:code-import{filePath="hardhat-sol/scripts/interop/get-verification-args-local.ts"}
```

### Verifying onchain

Once you have the input args, you can pass them into a contract function as shown in the example below:

#### Onchain verification script

```ts
:code-import{filePath="hardhat-sol/scripts/interop/test-onchain-verification.ts"}
```

#### Smart contract verification

```solidity
:code-import{filePath="hardhat-sol/contracts/InteropVerification.sol"}
```
