---
title: Emulator FAQ
---

## Frequently Asked Questions

#### Can I use default Foundry instead of Foundry-zksync?
Yes. Although as gas logic on EraVM differs from the EVM, it's recommended to use the `--skip-simulation` flag.

#### Can I use Hardhat without the `hardhat-zksync` plugin?
Yes.

#### What is the EVM version used by the EVM Emulator?
The EVM emulator targets **Cancun**.

#### Given that on EraVM contract deployment is done via the `ContractDeployer`, how does deployment work using the EVM Emulator?
You can deploy contracts just like on Ethereum (e.g., a transaction to `0x0` with the contract bytecode) and use tools like Hardhat
and Foundry out of the box (no plugins needed).
[See an EVM contract deployment in the explorer](http://35.184.110.151:3010/tx/0xcb15759b5f5545e2f9a70cbe4cfab1c80c8255462eed669e5155c80ec3220158).

#### How does the emulator contract get invoked on execution?
Invoking the EVM emulator is handled behind the scenes by the protocol. Developers don’t need to take any extra steps.
If you want to learn more, check the protocol documentation.

#### Are EVM-bytecode contracts and EraVM-bytecode contracts allowed to interact with each other transparently?
Contracts deployed with EVM bytecode can interact with contracts deployed with EraVM bytecode, **except for delegate calls**,
which are prohibited between EraVM and EVM bytecode contracts.

#### Will address derivation with regular `create` and `create2` be the same as on other EVM chains?
Yes.

#### Is the EVM emulator 100% compatible with EVM?
No. Although emulation covers most developers' needs, there are limitations due to the underlying EraVM, such as unsupported opcodes or gas differences.
Full EVM equivalence is expected with the next proving system in **2025**.

#### What's the behavior of `block.gaslimit`? Does it return the batch limit or the transaction limit?
It returns `1125899906842624n`.
This differs from the value returned by EVM chains: `36000000n`.
