---
title: zksync-cli dev
description: ZKsync CLI dev command reference
---

## Prerequisites

You will need [Docker](https://www.docker.com) to setup ZKsync nodes on your local machine.
[Download and install Docker](https://www.docker.com/get-started/) which will install the necessary tools for the `dev` command to work.

Once installed, ensure that the Docker program is running on your machine, otherwise the `dev` command may error.
Check to make sure that the Docker Desktop is running anytime you restart your machine.

```sh
zksync-cli dev [sub-command] [options]
```

## `config`

```sh
zksync-cli dev config [options]
```

An interactive command to select the default modules to run in local development environment.

## `start`

```sh
zksync-cli dev start [options]
```

Start local ZKsync CLI dev modules.

## `stop`

```sh
zksync-cli dev stop [options]
```

Stop currently running local ZKsync CLI dev modules.

## `restart`

```sh
zksync-cli dev restart [module] [options]
```

Restart running local ZKsync CLI dev modules.
Pass a module name to restart only that module.

## `logs`

```sh
zksync-cli dev logs [module] [options]
```

Displays truncated list of logs for configured ZKsync CLI dev modules.

## `clean`

```sh
zksync-cli dev clean [module] [options]
```

Removes data for all configured ZKsync CLI dev modules.

## `install`

```sh
zksync-cli dev install [module] [options]
zksync-cli dev i [module] [options]
```

Install a ZKsync CLI dev module with NPM.

::field{name="--link" type="boolean"}
Use 'npm link' instead of 'npm install' (useful during module development).
::

## `update`

```sh
zksync-cli dev update [module] [options]
```

Update a ZKsync CLI dev module version.

::field-group
  ::field{name="--force" type="boolean"}
  Force upddate the module (skip version check).
  ::
  ::field{name="--package" type="boolean"}
  Update the NPM package instead of module.
  ::
::

## `uninstall`

```sh
zksync-cli dev uninstall [module] [options]
```

::field{name="--unlink" type="boolean"}
Use 'npm unlink' instead of 'npm uninstall' (useful during module development).
::

## `modules`

```sh
zksync-cli dev modules [module] [options]
```

Lists currently installed ZKsync CLI dev modules.
