---
title: Hello ZKsync!
description: Learn to deploy smart contracts efficiently in the ZKsync environment.
---

Welcome to ZKsync 101 for deploying smart contracts on ZKsync! In this series, we'll walk you through the process
of creating and deploying a simple smart contract that creates a crowdfunding campaign for Zeek.
In this section you will learn how to:

:check-icon Craft a smart contract to fund Zeek's latest adventure.

:check-icon Deploy the contract onto your local in-memory `anvil-zksync` node.

:check-icon Interact with the contract with ZKsync CLI

Let's dive in and start your developer journey on ZKsync!

---

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-information-circle" color="blue"}
This series requires some initial setup of tools to enhance your
development experience building for ZKsync.
Make sure to go through the setup provided in the initial [Getting started](/zksync-era/guides/zksync-101) section.
::

## Compile the `CrowdfundingCampaign.sol` contract

To compile and deploy to ZKsync you can use either EVM or EraVM:

:display_partial{path="/_partials/_eravm_vs_evm"}

<br>

::content-switcher
---
items: [{
  label: 'EVM',
  partial: '_hello/_evm'
}, {
  label: 'EraVM',
  partial: '_hello/_era-vm'
}]
---
::

## Takeaways

- **EVM Compatibility:** ZKsync is EVM compatible and you can write smart contracts in Solidity or Vyper.
- **Custom Compilation:** Contracts deployed to ZKsync are compiled using `zksolc` or `zkvyper` as
they generate a special bytecode for ZKsync's ZKEVM.
- **Development Tools:** in-memory `anvil-zksync` node is a quick and easy local node environment to deploy to,
  saving costs on deployment while developing.
- **ZKsync CLI:** A powerful command line tool to interact with contracts easily.

## Next steps

Having successfully deployed your first contract on ZKsync, you're well on your way to becoming
a proficient ZKsync developer. To expand your expertise:

- **Explore Contract Factories:** Enhance your project by building a contract factory
for the `CrowdfundingCampaign` contract in the [next guide](/zksync-era/guides/zksync-101/contract-factory).
This will allow you to efficiently manage multiple crowdfunding campaigns, each with their own unique parameters.
- **Dive Deeper into ZKsync Features:** Investigate advanced ZKsync features such as account abstraction,
and paymasters.
- **Join the Community:** Engage with the ZKsync developer community through forums,
Discord channels, Dev Discussions, or GitHub repositories. Share your experiences, ask questions,
and collaborate on projects.
