---
title: Installation
description: How to install and set up zksync2-java for your project.
tags: ["zksync", "java", "sdk installation"]
links:
  - label: GitHub
    to: https://github.com/zksync-sdk/zksync2-java
    icon: simple-icons:github
    target: _blank
---

## About `zksync2-java`

The `zksync2-java` library builds upon the `web3j` library, ensuring that developers familiar with Web3j can easily
transition to using ZKsync-specific features. It supports all the standard Web3j functionalities while adding
additional methods tailored to ZKsync chains.

### ZKsync-specific methods

The library includes a variety of methods specific to ZKsync, such as:

- Estimating fees for transactions (`estimateFee`).
- Calculating gas usage for transactions (`estimateGas`, `estimateGasL1`).
- Retrieving account balances and block details.
- Managing transactions between Layer 1 (L1) and Layer 2 (L2).
- Accessing bridge contracts and batch details.

## Prerequisites

Before beginning the installation, make sure you have:

- **Java Development Kit (JDK)**: Java 8 or higher installed on your machine.
- **Maven or Gradle**: Depending on your project's build system, ensure Maven or Gradle is set up correctly.

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
Check out the [Java installation guide](https://www.java.com/en/download) for more information.
::

## Installation steps

### Maven setup
For projects using Maven, add the following dependency block to your `pom.xml` file to include the `zksync2-java` SDK:

```xml
<project>
  ...
  <dependencies>
    <dependency>
      <groupId>io.zksync</groupId>
      <artifactId>zksync2</artifactId>
      <version>v0.2.0</version>
    </dependency>
  </dependencies>
</project>
```

### Gradle setup
For projects utilizing Gradle, add the dependency to your `build.gradle` file as follows:

```groovy
dependencies {
    implementation "io.zksync:zksync2:v0.2.0"
}
```
