---
title: Installation
description: How to install and set up zksync2-swift for your project.
tags: ["zksync", "swift", "sdk installation"]
links:
  - label: GitHub
    to: https://github.com/zksync-sdk/zksync2-swift
    icon: simple-icons:github
    target: _blank
---

## About `zksync2-swift`

`zksync2-swift` is a Swift SDK designed to provide seamless integration with the ZKsync chains. Built for
developers working within the Apple ecosystem, this SDK facilitates interaction with ZKsync’s Ethereum Layer 2
scaling solutions, enabling efficient and cost-effective blockchain transactions.

### Key features

- **Efficient Ethereum integration**: `zksync2-swift` allows Swift developers to interact with ZKsync’s Layer 2
network, offering low gas fees and fast transaction speeds while maintaining compatibility with the Ethereum blockchain.
- **User-friendly API**: The SDK provides a straightforward and intuitive API that simplifies the process of
integrating ZKsync functionality into Swift applications. This includes support for transactions, smart contract
interactions, and account management.
- **Security and scalability**: Leveraging ZKsync’s advanced zero-knowledge rollups technology, `zksync2-swift`
ensures robust security and scalability, enabling applications to handle a high volume of transactions with minimal overhead.

Setting up in your project is straightforward. Follow these steps to integrate the SDK into your Swift application.

### Prerequisites

- iOS: >= 13.0
- macOS: >= 11.0

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
Check out the [Swift installation guide](https://www.swift.org/download) for more information.
::

### CocoaPods integration

To install `zksync2-swift` via CocoaPods, add the `zksync2-swift` pod to your Podfile:

```sh
pod 'zksync2-swift'
```

Then, run the following command in your terminal:

```sh
pod install
```

### Swift package manager integration

To install `zksync2-swift` via Swift Package Manager, add `zksync2-swift` to your Package Dependencies:

1. Open your project in Xcode.
2. Select `File > Swift Packages > Add Package Dependency`.
3. Enter the following URL:

    ```text
    https://github.com/zksync-sdk/zksync2-swift.git
    ```

4. Choose the latest version of the package.
