---
title: Explore the Ecosystem
description: Explore the ZKsync Era ecosystem, a comprehensive suite of services and tools from wallets to marketplaces that empower and enhance your experience.
---

Explore Wallets, Data services, Node providers, Marketplaces, Oracles, and much, much more
in the ZKsync Era ecosystem.
To see a wider list of the ecosystem, check out [ZKsync Era on DappRadar](https://zksync.dappradar.com/ecosystem).

::card-group
  ::card
  ---
  title: Wallets
  icon: i-heroicons-wallet-solid
  to: /zksync-era/ecosystem/wallets
  ---
  Access and manage your assets seamlessly with secure and interoperable wallets.
  ::
  ::card
  ---
  title: Data Indexers
  icon: i-heroicons-circle-stack-solid
  to: /zksync-era/ecosystem/data-indexers
  ---
  Harness the power of enhanced data retrieval to facilitate rich query capabilities.
  ::
  ::card
  ---
  title: Node Providers
  icon: i-heroicons-server-solid
  to: /zksync-era/ecosystem/node-providers
  ---
  Connect to ZKsync Era reliably with robust and scalable node services.
  ::
  ::card
  ---
  title: Marketplaces
  icon: i-heroicons-shopping-bag-solid
  to: /zksync-era/ecosystem/nft-marketplaces
  ---
  Explore digital goods with dynamic NFT marketplaces, fostering unique collectible exchanges.
  ::
  ::card
  ---
  title: Oracles
  icon: i-heroicons-adjustments-horizontal-solid
  to: /zksync-era/ecosystem/oracles
  ---
  Integrate real-world data securely to enhance application functionalities.
  ::
  ::card
  ---
  title: Bridges
  icon: i-heroicons-cursor-arrow-ripple-16-solid
  to: /zksync-era/ecosystem/bridges
  ---
  Experience seamless asset transfers between different blockchain ecosystems
  ::
  ::card
  ---
  title: Faucets
  icon: i-heroicons-currency-dollar-solid
  to: /zksync-era/ecosystem/network-faucets
  ---
  Get free test tokens for development purposes in the ZKsync test network.
  ::
  ::card
  ---
  title: Monitoring
  icon: i-heroicons-chart-bar-solid
  to: /zksync-era/ecosystem/monitoring
  ---
  Keep track of network operations with our comprehensive monitoring tools.
  ::
::
