---
title: Introduction
description: Discover how zkSync native Account Abstraction enhances transaction flexibility and user experience.
---

On Ethereum there are two types of accounts: [externally owned accounts (EOAs)]
(https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/accounts/#externally-owned-accounts-and-key-pairs) and
[contracts accounts](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/accounts/#contract-accounts).

::callout
To better understand this page, we recommend you take some time to first read a guide on [accounts](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/accounts/).
::

The former type is the only one that can initiate transactions,
while the latter is the only one that can implement arbitrary logic. For some
use-cases, like smart-contract wallets or privacy protocols, this difference can
create a lot of friction.

As a result, such applications require L1 relayers, e.g. an EOA to help facilitate
transactions from a smart-contract wallet.

Accounts in zkSync Era can initiate transactions, like an EOA, but can also have
arbitrary logic implemented in them, like a smart contract. This feature, called
"account abstraction" (AA), aims to resolve the issues described above.

Native Account Abstraction on zkSync Era fundamentally changes how accounts operate
by introducing the concept of Smart Accounts and Paymasters. Smart Accounts are
fully programmable, allowing for various customizations such as signature schemes,
native multi-sig capabilities, spending limits, and application-specific restrictions.

Paymasters, conversely, can sponsor transactions for users, enabling users to pay
transaction fees in ERC20 tokens. This innovative approach to account management
significantly enhances user experience, security, and flexibility, paving the way for broader adoption of blockchain technology.
