---
title: Extending EIP-4337
description: Overview of the extensions to ZKsync's native Account Abstraction from EIP4337.
---

To provide DoS protection for the operator, EIP4337 imposes several [restrictions]
(https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-4337#simulation) on the validation step of the
account.

Most of them, especially those regarding the forbidden opcodes, are still relevant. However, several restrictions have been lifted for better UX.

### Extending the allowed opcodes

- It is allowed to `call`/`delegateCall`/`staticcall` contracts that were already
deployed. Unlike Ethereum, we have no way to edit the code that was deployed or
delete the contract via selfdestruct, so we can be sure that the code during the
execution of the contract will be the same.

### Extending the set of slots that belong to a user

In the original EIP, the `validateTransaction` step of the AA allows the account to
read only the storage slots of its own. However, there are slots that
_semantically_ belong to that user but are actually located on another contract’s
addresses. A notable example is `ERC20` balance.

This limitation provides DDoS safety by ensuring that the slots used for validation
by various accounts _do not overlap_, so there is no need for them to _actually_
belong to the account’s storage.

To enable reading the user's ERC20 balance or allowance on the validation step, the
following types of slots will be allowed for an account with address `A` on the validation step:

1. Slots that belong to address `A`.
2. Slots `A` on any other address.
3. Slots of type `keccak256(A || X)` on any other address. (to cover `mapping(address => value)`, which is usually used for balance in ERC20 tokens).

### What could be allowed in the future?

In the future, we might even allow time-bound transactions, e.g. allow checking
that `block.timestamp <= value` if it returned `false`, etc. This would require
deploying a separate library of such trusted methods, but it would greatly increase the capabilities of accounts.
