---
title: Building Smart Accounts
description: Discover the process of building custom smart accounts.
---

To build custom accounts on our platform, developers must implement specific
interfaces and follow our recommended best practices for account deployment and management.

### Interface Implementation

Every custom account should implement the [IAccount](./20.design.md/#iaccount-interface)
interface. You can find an example of a typical account implementation, resembling
standard Externally Owned Accounts (EOA) on Ethereum, in the [DefaultAccount.sol]
(https://github.com/matter-labs/era-contracts/blob/main/system-contracts/contracts/DefaultAccount.sol) on GitHub.

This implementation returns an empty value when called by an external address, which may not be the desired behavior for your custom account.

### EIP1271 Integration

For smart wallets, we highly encourage the implementation of the [EIP1271](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1271) signature-validation scheme.
This standard is endorsed by the ZKsync team and is integral to our signature-verification library.

### Deployment Process

Deploying account logic follows a process similar to deploying a standard smart
contract. However, to distinguish smart contracts that are not intended to be
treated as accounts, use the `createAccount`/`create2Account` methods of the
deployer system contract instead of `create`/`create2`.

#### Example Using `zksync-ethers` SDK (v5)

```ts
import { ContractFactory } from "zksync-ethers";

const contractFactory = new ContractFactory(abi, bytecode, initiator, "createAccount");
const aa = await contractFactory.deploy(...args);
await aa.deployed();
```

### Verification Step Limitations

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-triangle" color="amber"}

Currently, the verification rules for custom accounts are not fully enforced, which might change in the future:

- Accounts must only interact with slots that belong to them.
- Context variables (e.g., `block.number`) are prohibited in account logic.
- Accounts must increment the nonce by 1 to maintain hash collision resistance.

::

These limitations are not yet enforceable at the circuit/VM level and do not apply to L1->L2 transactions.

### Nonce Management

Both transaction and deployment nonces are consolidated within the
[NonceHolder](../50.era-contracts/20.system-contracts.md/#nonceholder) system contract for optimization.
Use the [incrementMinNonceIfEquals](https://github.com/matter-labs/era-contracts/
blob/6250292a98179cd442516f130540d6f862c06a16/system-contracts/contracts/NonceHolder.sol#L110) function to safely increment your account's nonce.

### Sending Transactions

Currently, only EIP712 formatted transactions are supported for sending from custom
accounts. Transactions must specify the `from` field as the account's address and
include a `customSignature` in the `customData`.

#### Example Transaction Submission

```ts
import { utils } from "zksync-ethers";

// Here, `tx` is a `TransactionRequest` object from `zksync-ethers` SDK.
// `zksyncProvider` is the `Provider` object from `zksync-ethers` SDK connected to the ZKSync network.
tx.from = aaAddress;
tx.customData = {
  ...tx.customData,
  customSignature: aaSignature,
};
const serializedTx = utils.serialize({ ...tx });

const sentTx = await zksyncProvider.sendTransaction(serializedTx);
```
