---
title: Glossary
description: Find explanations for key terms and definitions
tags: ["zksync", "sdks", "zksync era sdk", "ethereum", "era network", "glossary"]
navigation: false
---

Familiarize yourself with important terminology to better understand the documentation and enhance your development process.

### Account abstraction
A feature that allows more complex logic in managing accounts and transactions, beyond the default capabilities of
Ethereum accounts.

### Block number
A sequential number indicating the position of a block within the blockchain.

### Endpoint
A specific URL where an API can be accessed by a client application.

### ERC-20
A widely-used standard for creating fungible tokens on the Ethereum blockchain. It ensures that tokens can be traded,
transferred, and managed consistently across different platforms and applications.

### ERC-721
A standard for creating non-fungible tokens (NFTs) on the Ethereum blockchain. NFTs are unique digital assets that
can represent ownership of real-world items, digital art, collectibles, and more.

### ERC-1155
A multi-token standard that supports both fungible and non-fungible tokens within a single contract, offering more
flexibility and efficiency in managing various types of assets.

### Layer 1 (L1)
The base layer or main blockchain architecture, such as the Ethereum mainnet, which handles all transaction
validations and security.

### Layer 2 (L2)
A secondary framework or protocol that is built on top of an existing blockchain system (Layer 1). Layer 2 solutions
aim to improve the scalability and efficiency of the underlying blockchain.

### Paymaster
A mechanism in ZKsync that allows users to pay transaction fees with tokens instead of ETH.

### Peer dependency
A library that a project depends on, which should be installed by the user, often because it is a shared dependency
between multiple projects.

### Transaction hash
A unique identifier assigned to each transaction processed on the blockchain.

### web3.py
A Python library for interacting with Ethereum. It is often used for building decentralized applications (DApps).

### ZKsync Era
ZKsync Era is a Layer 2 scaling solution for Ethereum, utilizing zk-rollup technology to enable scalable and low-cost
transactions while maintaining the security and trust of the Ethereum blockchain.

### ZK-Rollup
A type of Layer 2 scaling solution that bundles multiple transactions into a single batch and generates a
cryptographic proof (known as a zero-knowledge proof) that is submitted to the Ethereum mainnet. This process increases
throughput and reduces fees.

### ZKsync sepolia explorer
A block explorer specifically for the ZKsync Era on the Sepolia testnet, providing detailed information about
transactions, blocks, and addresses on the network.
