---
title: Custom Base Tokens
description:
---

You can customize your ZK chain by changing the base token used for gas from ETH to an ERC20 token.

With the initial release of ZK stack, base tokens must be whitelisted for use as a base token for a chain.
The whitelisted addresses are stored and checked in the `BridgeHub` contract on the L1.

In the future it will be possible to add a new token in a permissionless process.
For now, you have the ability to whitelist tokens in your local ecosystem.

## Custom Base Token Setup

The overall flow for setting up a local chain with a custom ERC20 base token looks like the following:

1. Deploy an ERC20 token to the L1.
1. Send ERC20 tokens to both the ecosystem and chain governor addresses on the L1.
    - You can find the addresses for the governor in `path/to/elastic_chain_ecosystem/configs/wallets.yaml`
    and `path/to/elastic_chain_ecosystem/chains/my_chain/configs/wallets.yaml` under `governor`.
    - See the example below for how to do this using the `cast` CLI:

    ```bash
    cast send <0xYOUR_TOKEN_ADDRESS> "transfer(address,uint256)" \
    <0x_YOUR_GOVERNOR_ADDRESS> 1000000000000000000 \
    --private-key <0x_YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY> \
    --rpc-url http://localhost:8545 \
    --gas-price 30000000000
    ```

1. Create your new chain that uses the ERC20 token and set it as the default.
    - When you set up your chain, you will be asked for the nominator and denominator for your base token.
    - The base token nominator and denominator are used to define the relationship of the base token price with ETH.
    - For example, if you set the nominator to 20 and the denominator to 1, together the relation is 20/1.
    This would mean that 20 tokens would be given the equivalent value as 1 ETH for gas.
1. Initialize the new chain in the ecosystem.
1. Bridge tokens from the L1 to your new chain.
    - You can use ZKsync CLI to bridge the tokens:

    ```bash
    zksync-cli bridge deposit --token <0x_YOUR_TOKEN_ADDRESS> \
    --rpc=http://localhost:3050 \
    --l1-rpc=http://localhost:8545
    ```

When you bridge the ERC20 token to your ZK chain, the token resolves to the same address used for ETH on a standard ZK chain:

```ts
const L2_BASE_TOKEN_ADDRESS = '0x000000000000000000000000000000000000800a';
```

If you want to check the balance of your bridged tokens with ZKsync CLI, you don't need to input the token address.

```bash
zksync-cli wallet balance --address <0x_YOUR_ADDRESS> --rpc http://localhost:3050
```

## Restarting a custom base token chain

To run your custom ZK chain again after setting up and shutting it down, follow the steps below:

1. If you shut down your local L1 node that had your ERC20 token deployed to it:
    - Redeploy your ERC20 contract to the L1.
    - Update the base token address in `my_elastic_chain/chains/custom_zk_chain/configs/contracts.yaml` under `l1.base_token_addr` and in
  `my_elastic_chain/chains/custom_zk_chain/ZkStack.yaml` under `base_token.address`.
    - Send ERC20 tokens to both the ecosystem and chain governor addresses on the L1.
1. Initialize the chain in the ecosystem
1. Start the chain server with `zk_inception server`.
1. Bridge ERC20 tokens from the L1 to L2.

## Bridging ETH to your chain

If you try to bridge regular ETH to a chain with a custom base token, the ETH will be bridged to a different token contract address.

To get the token address for ETH on your chain, you can pass the `ETH_ADDRESS_IN_CONTRACTS` constant to the `l2TokenAddress` method from `zksync-ethers`.

```ts
import { ETH_ADDRESS_IN_CONTRACTS } from "zksync-ethers/build/utils.js";

const l2ETHAddress = await wallet.l2TokenAddress(ETH_ADDRESS_IN_CONTRACTS);
```
