---
title: Configurations
description:
---

Running the `zk_inception ecosystem create` CLI
will generate an ecosystem folder that contains the configurations and more for your ecosystem and its chains.
Understanding the configuration files for your chain and ecosystem is important for understanding how to interact with and customize your chain and environment.

## Chain configurations

The main configuration file for a chain called can be found in `<YOUR_ECOSYSTEM_DIRECTORY>/chains/<YOUR_CHAIN_NAME>/ZkStack.yaml`.
It contains the most basic configurations for the chain.

Inside `<YOUR_ECOSYSTEM_DIRECTORY>/chains/<YOUR_CHAIN_NAME>/configs`, you can find six more configuration files:

1. `contracts.yaml`: configurations for all the L1 & L2 contracts.
1. `external_node.yaml`: configurations for the chain's node server.
1. `general.yaml`: general configurations.
1. `genesis.yaml`: chain specific configurations with parameters that were used during genesis.
1. `secrets.yaml`: secrets that are individual for every chain.
1. `wallets.yaml`: all wallets that you are using for this chain.

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-triangle" color="amber"}
Never commit your private keys or sensitive secrets to a public repository.
::

## Ecosystem configurations

The main configuration file for the ecosystem can be found at `elastic_chain_ecosystem/ZkStack.yaml`.
This file contains general configuration values for the ecosystem.

More configuration files for the ecosystem can be found in `<YOUR_ECOSYSTEM_DIRECTORY>/configs`:

1. `contracts.yaml`: configurations for all the L1 & L2 contracts.
1. `erc20.yaml`: Information about the test ERC20 tokens.
1. `initial_deployments.yaml`: configuration values for the initial ecosystem deployment.
1. `wallets.yaml`: all wallets that you are using for this chain.
