---
title: Getting started
description: Learn how to use Hardhat with ZKsync.
tags: ["zksync", "hardhat", "plugins", "getting started"]
---

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-triangle" color="amber"}
If you are using Windows, we strongly recommend you use Windows Subsystem for Linux (also known as WSL 2).
You can use `Hardhat` and `Hardhat ZKsync plugins` without it, but it will work better if you use it.

To install Node.js using WSL 2, please read this [guide](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/dev-environment/javascript/nodejs-on-wsl).
::

[Hardhat](https://hardhat.org) is an Ethereum development environment, designed for easy smart contract development.
One of its most prominent features is extendability: you can easily add new plugins to your hardhat project.

Along with the official plugins, there are [other plugins from the community](/zksync-era/tooling/hardhat/plugins/other-plugins) that you can use with
ZKsync Era.

To learn more about Hardhat itself, check out [the official documentation](https://hardhat.org/getting-started/).

This tutorial shows you how to setup a ZKsync Era Solidity project with Hardhat using the [ZKsync CLI](/zksync-era/tooling/zksync-cli).

If you are using Vyper, check out the [Vyper plugin documentation](/zksync-era/tooling/hardhat/plugins/hardhat-zksync-vyper)
or the [vyper-example](%%zk_git_repo_hardhat-zksync%%/tree/main/examples/vyper-example) in GitHub!

## Project setup

To create a new project run the `zksync-cli create` command, passing a project name:

#### Solidity project

```sh
npx zksync-cli create demo --template hardhat_solidity
```

#### Vyper project

```sh
npx zksync-cli create demo --template hardhat_vyper
```

This command creates a `demo` folder and clones a Hardhat template project inside it.
The downloaded project is already configured and contains all the required plugins.

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
If you want to migrate an existing project, please check the [project migration guide](/zksync-era/tooling/hardhat/guides/migrating-to-zksync).
::

## Hardhat configuration

The `hardhat.config.ts` file contains some ZKsync Era specific configurations:

#### Solidity project

```ts
:code-import{filePath="hardhat-sol-template/hardhat.config.ts:zksync-import"}
```

The `zksolc` block contains the minimal configuration for the compiler.

```ts
:code-import{filePath="hardhat-sol-template/hardhat.config.ts:zksolc"}
```

#### Vyper project

```ts
:code-import{filePath="hardhat-vyper-template/hardhat.config.ts:zksync-vyper-import"}
```

The `zkvyper` block contains the minimal configuration for the compiler.

```ts
:code-import{filePath="hardhat-vyper-template/hardhat.config.ts:zkvyper"}
```

#### Network

The default network is set to `ZKsyncEraSepolia`, but mainnet and local test node networks are also configured.

```ts
:code-import{filePath="hardhat-sol-template/hardhat.config.ts:networks"}
```

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-information-circle" color="blue"}
For local ZKsync testing, modify the default network name, and
add `import dotenv from "dotenv"; dotenv.config();` to use a `.env` file.
::

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-information-circle" color="blue"}
This template project includes a basic unit test in the `/test` folder that runs with the local-setup and can be executed with `yarn test`.
::

## Set your Private Key

Rename `.env.example` to `.env` and set your private key:

```text
WALLET_PRIVATE_KEY=YourPrivateKeyHere
```

Your private key will be used for paying the costs of deploying the smart contract.

## Compile and deploy a contract

Smart contracts belong in the `contracts` folder. Both the Solidity and Vyper templates contain a simple `Greeter` contract.

#### 1. To compile the contract, run

:display_partial{path="/_partials/commands/_compile"}

You'll see the following output:

```text
Compiling contracts for ZKsync Era with zksolc v1.5.10 and zkvm-solc v0.8.28-1.0.1
Successfully compiled 1 Solidity file
// Successfully compiled 1 Vyper file - Vyper project
✨  Done in 1.09s.
```

The `artifacts-zk` and `cache-zk` folders appear in the root directory (instead of the regular Hardhat's `artifacts` and `cache`).
These folders contain the compilation artifacts (including contract's ABIs) and compiler cache files.

::callout
The `artifacts-zk` and `cache-zk` folders are included in the `.gitignore` file.
::

In the `scripts` folder, the `deploy.ts` script shows an example of how to deploy the `Greeter.sol`/`Greeter.vy` contract.

```ts
:code-import{filePath="hardhat-sol-template/scripts/deploy.ts"}
```

#### 2. To execute the deployment script run

::code-group

```bash [npm]
npm run deploy
```

```bash [yarn]
yarn deploy
```

```bash [pnpm]
pnpm deploy
```

```bash [bun]
bun run deploy
```

::

This script deploys the `Greeting` contract with the message "Hi there!" to %%zk_testnet_name%%.

You should see something like this:

```bash
Deploying Greeter contract to ZKsyncEraSepolia
Greeter was deployed to 0x46f1d2d8A16DBD8b47e9D61175a826ac667288Be4D1293a22E8

✨  Done in 12.69s.
```

Congratulations! You have deployed a smart contract project to %%zk_testnet_name%% with Hardhat 🎉

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-cube-transparent-solid" color="blue"}
The Solidity template additionally contains a token and NFT contracts and deployment scripts.
::

## Interact with the contract

The template project contains another script to interact with the contract.

1. Enter the address of the deployed Greeter contract in the `CONTRACT_ADDRESS` variable of the `interact.ts` script:

    ```ts [interact.ts]
    :code-import{filePath="hardhat-sol-template/scripts/interact.ts"}
    ```

1. To execute the script, run:

    ::code-group

    ```bash [npm]
    npm run interact
    ```

    ```bash [yarn]
    yarn interact
    ```

    ```bash [pnpm]
    pnpm interact
    ```

    ```bash [bun]
    bun interact
    ```

    ::

    The script will:

    - Retrieve the message from the contract by calling the `greet()` method.
    - Update the greeting message in the contract with the `setGreeting()` method.
    - Retrieve the message from the contract again.

    You should see something like this:

    ```bash
    Running script to interact with contract 0xaB387e2bf9068Ee39C76fdd16F80b2078Ff73F3D
    Current message is: Hi there!
    Transaction hash of setting new message: 0xe7ea1fa4041ff0d5a117d0d53c8d8934c4a9e1f4730f58ca2bae7389f428fbf2
    The message now is: Hello people!

    ✨  Done in 14.32s.
    ```

## Learn more

- To learn more about the ZKsync Hardhat plugins check out the [plugins documentation](/zksync-era/tooling/hardhat/guides/getting-started).
- If you want to know more about how to interact with ZKsync using Javascript,
check out the [`zksync-ethers` Javascript SDK documentation](https://sdk.zksync.io/js/ethers).

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
Check the [installation guide](/zksync-era/tooling/hardhat/installation) for instructions!
::
