---
title: Migrating Hardhat project to ZKsync Era
description: Learn how to migrate an existing Hardhat project to ZKsync Era.
---

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
ZKsync supports both EVM and EraVM.
This migration is only required to deploy and test EraVM contracts.
::

## Prerequisites

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org) version 18 or newer is required.

- To ensure compatibility with our plugins, make sure that [Hardhat](https://hardhat.org) version 2.16.0 or newer is installed in your project.

## Project setup

The `@matterlabs/hardhat-zksync` plugin includes all the necessary tools to compile, test, deploy, and verify contracts on ZKsync.

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
Under the hood, this plugin bundles together several plugins that focus on specific features like compilation, deployment, and verification.
You can learn more about each plugin in the [Getting started section](/zksync-network/tooling/hardhat/guides/getting-started).
::

1. Install the `@matterlabs/hardhat-zksync` plugin with:

    ::code-group

    ```bash [npm]
    npm i -D @matterlabs/hardhat-zksync
    ```

    ```bash [yarn]
    yarn add -D @matterlabs/hardhat-zksync
    ```

    ```bash [pnpm]
    pnpm i -D @matterlabs/hardhat-zksync
    ```

    ```bash [bun]
    bun add -D @matterlabs/hardhat-zksync
    ```

    ::

1. Import the plugin in the `hardhat.config.ts` file. If your project has multiple plugins, import `@matterlabs/hardhat-zksync` last:

    ```ts
    // Other Hardhat plugin imports above
    :code-import{filePath="hardhat-sol-template/hardhat.config.ts:zksync-import"}
    ```

1. Remove conflicting plugin imports

   - `@nomicfoundation/hardhat-ethers`: `@matterlabs/hardhat-zksync` includes `hardhat-ethers` extended with support for ZKsync and non-ZKsync networks.
   - `@openzeppelin/hardhat-upgrades`:  `@matterlabs/hardhat-zksync` includes `hardhat-upgrades` extended with support for ZKsync and non-ZKsync networks.
     - **For multichain projects** that deploy to both ZKsync and regular Ethereum networks, `@openzeppelin/hardhat-upgrades`
       must still be installed as the ZKsync plugin delegates to it for non-ZKsync networks.
   - `@nomicfoundation/hardhat-toolbox`: this plugin includes `@nomicfoundation/hardhat-ethers` which can cause conflicts. Import necessary
     components separately excluding `@nomicfoundation/hardhat-ethers`.

   ```ts
   // import "@nomicfoundation/hardhat-toolbox"
   // import "@nomicfoundation/hardhat-ethers"
   // import "@openzeppelin/hardhat-upgrades" // Keep this import for multichain projects
    :code-import{filePath="hardhat-sol-template/hardhat.config.ts:zksync-import"}
   ```

1. Add the preferred ZKsync networks to the `hardhat.config.ts` file:

    ```ts
    :code-import{filePath="hardhat-sol-template/hardhat.config.ts:networks"}
    ```

1. Add the `zksolc` config to specify the `zksolc` compiler version and codegen:

    ```ts
    :code-import{filePath="hardhat-sol-template/hardhat.config.ts:zksolc"}
    ```

## Compilation

ZKsync Era (as well as other chains built with ZK Stack) is operated by the EraVM,
which executes a specific bytecode that differs from the EVM.
This bytecode is generated by the `zksolc` (for Solidity contracts)
and `zkvyper` (for Vyper contracts) compilers.

To compile your contracts with these compilers, follow these steps:

1. Run the compilation task targeting one of the ZKsync networks, which contain `zksync: true`:

    ::code-group

    ```bash [npm]
    npx hardhat compile --network ZKsyncEraSepolia
    ```

    ```bash [yarn]
    yarn hardhat compile --network ZKsyncEraSepolia
    ```

    ```bash [pnpm]
    pnpm hardhat compile --network ZKsyncEraSepolia
    ```

    ```bash [bun]
    bun hardhat compile --network ZKsyncEraSepolia
    ```

    ::

1. The following output indicates the contracts are being compiled with the `zksolc` compiler:

    ```bash
    Compiling contracts for ZKsync Era with zksolc v1.5.15 and zkvm-solc v0.8.30-1.0.2
    Compiling 42 Solidity files
    ```

1. The compiler generates the `/artifacts-zk` and `/cache-zk` folders containing the smart contract correspondent artifacts,
which follow the same structure as the ones generated by the `solc` compiler.

### Compiler settings

You can modify different compiler settings in the `zksolc` or `zkvyper` property inside the `hardhat.config.ts` file.

- Check the [available `zksolc` settings here](/zksync-network/tooling/hardhat/plugins/hardhat-zksync-solc#configuration).
- Check the [available `zkvyper` settings here](/zksync-network/tooling/hardhat/plugins/hardhat-zksync-vyper#configuration).

### Non-inline Libraries

Deploying non-inline libraries on ZKsync differs from Ethereum.

On Ethereum, non-inlineable libraries must be deployed beforehand, and then referenced in the deployment transaction of the contract that imports them:

```typescript [Ethereum non-inlineable libraries]
const firstLibrary = await hre.ethers.deployContract("LibraryA");
await firstLibrary.waitForDeployment();
const firstLibraryAddress = await firstLibrary.getAddress()

const secondLibrary = await hre.ethers.deployContract("LibraryB");
await secondLibrary.waitForDeployment();
const secondLibraryAddress = await l2.getAddress();

const mainContract = await hre.ethers.deployContract("MainContract",{
  libraries:{
    LibraryA:firstLibraryAddress,
    LibraryB:secondLibraryAddress
  }
});

await mainContract.waitForDeployment();
```

On ZKsync, if your project contains non-inlineable libraries,
the compilation command will throw an error.

To automatically deploy all non-inlineable libraries, follow these steps:

1. Configure a deployer account in the ZKsync network you want to deploy by adding the `accounts:[]` property.
1. Run the following command to deploy the libraries and auto-generate the libraries configuration in the `hardhat.config.ts` file:

    ::code-group

    ```bash [npm]
    npx hardhat deploy-zksync:libraries
    ```

    ```bash [yarn]
    yarn hardhat deploy-zksync:libraries
    ```

    ```bash [pnpm]
    pnpx hardhat deploy-zksync:libraries
    ```

    ```bash [bun]
    bunx hardhat deploy-zksync:libraries
    ```

    ::

    The command will add the libraries and their addresses to the `hardhat.config.ts` file.

1. Now you can compile the main contract that imports the libraries and deploy the contract without the need to reference the libraries:

    ```ts [deploy.ts]
    :code-import{filePath="hardhat-sol/deploy/deploy-main.ts"}
    ```

### Troubleshoting

**Use of unsupported opcodes like SELFDESTRUCT or EXTCODECOPY.** The compiler will throw an error if any unsupported opcodes is used in one of the contracts.
See differences with EVM opcodes in [EVM instructions](/zksync-protocol/era-vm/differences/evm-instructions#coinbase).

## Testing

ZKSync provides different EraVM node implementations to test smart contracts locally:

- anvil-zksync (in-memory node implementation for ZKsync): fast L2 node with non-persistent state.
- Dockerized setup: L1 and L2 nodes with persistent state but slower performance.

Unless your project contains L1-L2 features, testing with the anvil-zksync is recommended, which is included in the `@matterlabs/hardhat-zksync` plugin.

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-triangle" color="amber"}
In version `1.0.12`, `hardhat-network-helpers` introduced support for both anvil-zksync node and Dockerized setups, allowing methods
such as `loadFixture` to be utilized in test files.
::

You can read more about each node in the [Testing section of the docs](/zksync-network/tooling/local-setup).

### Running unit tests on anvil-zksync node

To run tests using anvil-zksync node, follow these steps:

1. Add the `zksync:true` flag to the `hardhat` network in the `hardhat.config.ts` file to override Hardhat's default node with anvil-zksync node.
1. Run the test task with `npx hardhat test --network hardhat` (or make `hardhat` the default network).

You can find more info about testing with `anvil-zksync` in [Hardhat-ZKsync node](/zksync-network/tooling/hardhat/plugins/hardhat-zksync-node).

### Running tests on Dockerized setup

To run tests on the Dockerized local setup, follow these steps:

1. Run `npx zksync-cli dev config` and select the “Dockerized node” option.
1. Run `npx zksync-cli dev start` to start the L1 and L2 nodes.
1. Add the Dockerized nodes to the list of networks in the `hardhat.config.ts` file:

```ts [hardhat.config.ts]
networks: {
:code-import{filePath="101/hardhat.config.ts:docker-network"}
  // Other networks

}
```

1. Make sure the providers in your test files target the correct url.
1. Run the test task with `npx hardhat test --network dockerizedNode`.

## Deployment

Smart contract deployment on ZKsync Era (and chains built with ZK Stack) differ from Ethereum
as they are handled by the `ContractDeployer` system contract
(see [Ethereum differences](/zksync-protocol/era-vm/differences/contract-deployment)).

There are different approaches for contract deployment:

### Deployment with `hardhat-ethers`

The `@matterlabs/hardhat-zksync` includes `@matterlabs/hardhat-zksync-ethers`, a package that extends `@nomiclabs/hardhat-ethers`
with all the necessary helper methods to deploy contracts on both ZKsync and EVM networks. The injected `hre.ethers`
object provides methods like `deployContract`, `getContractFactory` or `getContractAt` so deployment scripts work out of the box.

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-triangle" color="amber"}
To avoid typescript collision errors between `@nomiclabs/hardhat-ethers` and `@matterlabs/hardhat-zksync-ethers` make sure that only the latter
(or the wrapper plugin `@matterlabs/hardhat-zksync`) is imported in the `hardhat.config.ts` file.
::

See an example below:

```ts [hardhat-ethers]
:code-import{filePath="hardhat-sol-template/scripts/deploy.ts"}
```

When a custom deployment is needed, use `ContractFactory`.

```ts [hardhat-ethers]
:code-import{filePath="101/test/3-proxy-contracts/BeaconProxy.test.ts:contract-factory"}
```

### Deployment with `hardhat-deploy`

The newest versions of the `hardhat-deploy` plugin (beginning with `0.11.26`) now support ZKsync
deployments out of the box. This means you don't need to modify your deployment scripts and methods like `getNamedAccounts` can be used on ZKsync.

### Deployment with `hardhat-viem`

<!-- TODO: test and compare scripts -->
To be included.

### Deployment with Hardhat ignition

Hardhat ignition scripts do not support deployments to ZKsync Era yet.
Please use other options like [hardhat-deploy](#deployment-with-hardhat-deploy) or [hardhat-ethers](#deployment-with-hardhat-ethers)

### Deploying proxy contracts

The `@matterlabs/hardhat-zksync` includes `@matterlabs/hardhat-zksync-upgradable`,
which extends `@openzeppelin/hardhat-upgrades` with all the necessary methods to deploy and upgrade proxy contracts on ZKsync and EVM networks.

The injected `hre.upgrades`
object provides methods like `deployProxy`or `deployBeacon` so deployment scripts work out of the box.

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-triangle" color="amber"}
To avoid typescript collision errors between `@openzeppelin/hardhat-upgrades` and `@matterlabs/hardhat-zksync-upgradable` make sure that only the latter
(or the wrapper plugin `@matterlabs/hardhat-zksync`) is imported in the `hardhat.config.ts` file.
::

See examples below:

#### Transparent proxy (deployment)

```typescript [@openzeppelin/contracts-upgradable]
:code-import{filePath="101/deploy/3-proxy-contracts/transparent/deploy.ts:deploy"}
```

#### Transparent proxy (upgrade)

```typescript [@openzeppelin/hardhat-upgrades]
:code-import{filePath="101/deploy/3-proxy-contracts/transparent/upgrade.ts:upgrade"}
```

#### Beacon proxy (deployment)

```typescript [@openzeppelin/contracts-upgradable]
:code-import{filePath="101/deploy/3-proxy-contracts/beacon/deploy.ts:deploy"}
```

#### Beacon proxy (upgrade)

```typescript [@openzeppelin/hardhat-upgrades]
:code-import{filePath="101/deploy/3-proxy-contracts/beacon/upgrade.ts:upgrade"}
```

#### UUPS proxy (deployment)

```typescript [@openzeppelin/contracts-upgradable]
:code-import{filePath="101/deploy/3-proxy-contracts/uups/deploy.ts:deploy"}
```

#### UUPS proxy (upgrade)

```typescript [@openzeppelin/hardhat-upgrades]
:code-import{filePath="101/deploy/3-proxy-contracts/uups/upgrade.ts:upgrade"}
```

### Custom deployment scripts with `hardhat-zksync`

Additionally, you can write custom deployment scripts for ZKsync leveraging the `hre.deployer` object which is injected automatically by `@matterlabs/hardhat-zksync-deploy`.
The `Deployer` class provides helper methods to deploy smart contracts to ZKsync. Learn more on [`hardhat-zksync-deploy` methods](/zksync-network/tooling/hardhat/plugins/hardhat-zksync-deploy#methods).

### Troubleshoting

- **Contract size too large:** if the size of the generated bytecode is too large and can not be deployed, try compiling
the contract with the `mode: 3` flag in the `hardhat.config.ts` file to
optimize the bytecode size on compilation. Learn more on [`hardhat-zksync-solc` configuration](/zksync-network/tooling/hardhat/plugins/hardhat-zksync-solc#configuration).

## Smart contract verification

<!-- TODO: pending rephrase -->
There are no differences in the verification of smart contracts on ZKsync.

By installing `@matterlabs/hardhat-zksync`, a verification plugin is provided.

You will have to add a `verifyURL` on the ZKsync networks in the `hardhat.config.ts` file:

```typescript
  :code-import{filePath="101/hardhat.config.ts:verify"}
```

You can run the verification task programmatically inside a script as follows:

```js
const verificationId = await hre.run("verify:verify", {
  address: contractAddress,
  contract: contractFullyQualifedName,
  constructorArguments: [...]
});
```

Alternatively you can execute the verification task from your terminal:

```sh
npx hardhat verify --network testnet 0x7cf08341524AAF292255F3ecD435f8EE1a910AbF "Hi there!"
```

Find more info in [`hardhat-zksync-verify`](/zksync-network/tooling/hardhat/plugins/hardhat-zksync-verify),
and in the ["How to Verify Contracts" tutorial](https://code.zksync.io/tutorials/how-to-verify-contracts).

## Scripting

Most scripts will work out of the box as interacting with smart contracts deployed on ZKsync is exactly the same as on any EVM chain.

For ZKsync-specific features like native account abstraction or paymaster transactions, there are plugins or extensions for the most popular libraries:

- Ethers: [zksync-ethers](https://sdk.zksync.io/js/ethers/installation).
- Web3.js: [web3-plugin-zksync](https://sdk.zksync.io/js/web3js).
- Viem: [ZKsync extension](https://viem.sh/zksync).

For other programming languages, please refer to the [SDK documentation](/zksync-network/sdk).

## Multichain projects

The [following example project](https://github.com/uF4No/hardhat-evm-zksync-example) can be used as a reference to target both EVM and ZKsync chains.

Here are some recommendations for projects that target multiple chains:

- Add the desired ZKsync networks with the `zksync:true` flag to the `hardhat.config.ts`.
- Install `@openzeppelin/hardhat-upgrades` explicitly if you're using proxy contracts and deploying to both ZKsync and regular Ethereum networks.
  The `@matterlabs/hardhat-zksync` plugin uses its own implementation for ZKsync networks but delegates to OpenZeppelin's implementation for non-ZKsync networks.
- Make sure to run the compilation task with the `--network` flag when targeting ZKsync networks to use the custom compiler.
- When targeting ZKsync chains, the `@matterlabs/hardhat-zksync` plugin overrides the following plugins: `@nomiclabs/hardhat-ethers`, `@openzeppelin/hardhat-upgrades`.
- To avoid typescript collision errors between `@nomiclabs/hardhat-ethers` and
`@openzeppelin/hardhat-upgrades` with  `@matterlabs/hardhat-zksync` make sure that only the latter is imported in the `hardhat.config.ts` file.
- Your deployment scripts should not require any changes if you're using `hardhat-deploy` or `hardhat-ethers`.
- If you have a separate directory for ZKsync deployment scripts, you can indicate the custom
deployment folder for the ZKsync network using [the `deployPaths` property](/zksync-network/tooling/hardhat/plugins/hardhat-zksync-deploy#network-specific-deployment-paths):

```ts
const config: HardhatUserConfig = {
  networks: {
    zksyncTestnet: {
      url: "https://sepolia.era.zksync.dev",
      ethNetwork: "sepolia",
      zksync: true,
      // ADDITION
      deployPaths: "deploy-zksync", //single deployment directory
      deployPaths: ["deploy", "deploy-zksync"], //multiple deployment directories
    },
  },
};
```

## Support

If you're having issues migrating a Hardhat project to ZKsync, please [reach out to us by creating a GitHub discussion](%%zk_git_repo_zksync-developers%%/discussions/).
