---
title: Getting Started
description: Learn how to use the powerful ZKsync CLI tool for local development.
---

The ZKsync Command Line Interface (CLI) is a powerful tool designed to simplify the development and interaction with ZKsync from a command shell.

## Usage

You can run commands locally without installation using the following command: `npx zksync-cli`. For example: `npx zksync-cli dev start`.

### Install zksync-cli

You can alternatively install the CLI globally using the npm package manager:

```bash
npm install -g zksync-cli
```

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb" color="blue"}
If you go the route of installing the zksync-cli package locally, we recommend using the global option.
::

### Update zksync-cli

If you installed `zksync-cli` via the npm package manager, you can update with the following:

```bash
npm update -g zksync-cli
```

## Available Commands

- [`dev`](./10.zksync-cli-dev.md): Start a local development environment with ZKsync and Ethereum nodes.
- [`create`](./20.zksync-cli-create.md): Scaffold new projects using templates for frontend, contracts, and scripting.
- [`contract`](./30.zksync-cli-contract.md): Read and write data to ZKsync contracts without building UI.
- [`transaction`](./40.zksync-cli-transaction.md): Fetch and display detailed information about a specific transaction.
- [`wallet`](./50.zksync-cli-wallet.md): Manage ZKsync wallet assets, including transfers and balance checks.
- [`bridge`](./60.zksync-cli-bridge.md): Perform deposits and withdrawals between Ethereum and ZKsync.
- [`config chains`](./70.zksync-cli-config-chains.md): Add or edit custom chains for flexible testing and development.

## Further Assistance

Need help? Join our [GitHub Discussions](%%zk_git_repo_zksync-developers%%/discussions/)
to ask questions, share your experiences, and connect with the ZKsync community.

## Source Code

The [ZKsync CLI project](%%zk_git_repo_zksync-cli%%)
is open-source and available on GitHub under the MIT License.
Feel free to contribute, report issues, or suggest new features to help us improve the tool for everyone.
