---
title: zksync-cli wallet
description: Manage your wallet on ZKsync using zksync-cli.
---

Utilize the `zksync-cli wallet` command for an easy way to manage your assets on ZKsync, like token transfers and balance check.

## Commands

- `transfer [options]` - Transfer tokens on L2 to another account.
- `balance [options]` - Get token balance of an L2 account.

## Transfer

To transfer ETH between accounts on ZKsync, use the following command:

```bash
zksync-cli wallet transfer
```

### Options

If no options are provided directly, the CLI will prompt the user to enter the necessary information

- `--amount <0.1>`: Specify the amount to transfer.
- `--chain <chain>`: Select the chain to use.
- `--rpc <URL>`: Override the default L2 RPC URL.
- `--pk`, `--private-key <wallet private key>`: Use the private key of the sender for the transaction.
- `--to`, `--recipient <0x address>`: Define the recipient address on L2.
- `--token <token address>`: Specify an ERC-20 token for the transfer instead of ETH.

### Examples

#### Transfer ERC-20 Token

For transferring ERC-20 tokens, include the `--token` option with the token's contract address:

```bash
zksync-cli wallet transfer --token 0x3e622317f8C93f7328350cF0B56d9eD4C620C5d6
```

## Balance

View an L2 wallet's ETH balance using the following command:

```bash
zksync-cli wallet balance
```

### Options

If no options are provided directly, the CLI will prompt the user to enter the necessary information

- `--address <0x address>`: Address of the wallet to check.
- `--token <token address>`: Specify an ERC-20 token for the transfer instead of ETH.
- `--chain <chain>`: Chain to use.
- `--rpc <URL>`: Override the default L2 RPC URL.

### Examples

#### Checking ERC-20 Token Balance

To check the balance of a specific ERC-20 token, use the `--token` option, for example:

```bash
zksync-cli wallet balance --token 0x3e622317f8C93f7328350cF0B56d9eD4C620C5d6
```
