---
title: Getting Started
description: Learn how to setup and use Foundry with your ZKsync project.
---

Getting started with Foundry on ZKsync requires a few
key adjustments to accommodate the differences between Ethereum and ZKsync environments.
This guide will walk you through the essential steps for setting up your project, running tests, and configuring Foundry for ZKsync compatibility.

A `forge test` begins its execution in the standard EVM context, which is why compiling
`solc` artifacts is necessary. However, during test execution, the context can switch over to ZKsync in several ways.

When switching to the ZKsync context, the following operations are performed:

- All `persisted_accounts` storages are migrated to ZKsync storage.
- Any EVM bytecode deployed under the migrated accounts is replaced by its `zksolc` variant.
- Solidity globals such as `block.number` and `address.balance` will return ZKsync values even when the test begins in the EVM context.
- The original EVM context (including the block environment) is preserved in case the test needs to switch back from ZKsync.

### Switching to ZKsync

You can switch to the ZKsync context in the following ways:

#### CLI Flags

The `--zksync` flag compiles the sources for `zksolc` and automatically switches the
test execution to the ZKsync context. This flag is a shorthand for enabling two specific flags:

- `--zk-startup`: Switches to ZKsync on test startup.
- `--zk-compile`: Compiles the sources using `zksolc`.

## Configuration

### Using `foundry.toml`

Foundry is highly configurable through a `foundry.toml` file, located in the root of your project or any parent directory.
For a full list of configuration options, see the [config package documentation](https://github.com/matter-labs/foundry-zksync/blob/main/crates/config/README.md#all-options).

#### Profiles

You can organize configuration options using profiles. The default profile is named `default`. See more about the [Default Profile](https://github.com/matter-labs/foundry-zksync/blob/main/crates/config/README.md#default-profile).

To switch profiles, use the `FOUNDRY_PROFILE` environment variable. You can also override specific settings using environment variables prefixed
with `FOUNDRY_` or `DAPP_`, such as `FOUNDRY_SRC`.

#### Initialization

The `forge init` command generates a basic `foundry.toml` file, which you can extend as needed.

#### Viewing Configuration

To view your current configuration:

- Run `forge config` to see all options.
- Run `forge config --basic` for a simplified view (as initialized with `forge init`).
- You can generate a new `foundry.toml` file with `forge config --basic > foundry.toml`.

By default, `forge config` displays the active profile and its values. It also accepts the same arguments as `forge build`.

#### Example `foundry.toml` for ZKsync

Here's an example configuration for ZKsync with `zksolc` settings:

```toml
[profile.default]
src = 'src'
out = 'out'
libs = ['lib']

[profile.default.zksync]
compile = true
fallback_oz = true
mode = '3'
```

### Additional Configuration

You can find additional setup and configurations guides in the [Foundry Book](https://book.getfoundry.sh/):

- [Setting up VSCode](https://book.getfoundry.sh/config/vscode)
- [Shell autocompletions](https://book.getfoundry.sh/config/shell-autocompletion)

### Private key setup with Foundry keystore

:display-partial{ path="_partials/_foundry-create-keystore" }

## Basic Usage

### Testing

Use `forge test --zksync` to run tests written for your smart contracts.

For an overview of how to write tests using `foundry-zksync` please refer to Foundry testing [here](/build/test-and-debug/foundry).

## Deploying Smart Contracts with `forge`

### Compilation with `forge build --zksync`

`forge build --zksync` is used for compiling smart contracts into %%zk_zkevm_label%% bytecode.
The compiled files are stored in a structured directory at `<PROJECT-ROOT>/zkout/`.

**Command:**

```sh
forge build [OPTIONS] --zksync
```

**Options:**

To get the list of all `build` options run:

```sh
forge build --help
```

Besides standard options from original Foundry, there is `ZKSync configuration` set of options:

- `--zk-startup[=<ENABLE_ZKVM_AT_STARTUP>]` Enable zkVM at startup.
- `--zk-compile[=<COMPILE_FOR_ZKVM>]` Compile for zkVM.
- `--zk-solc-path <ZK_SOLC_PATH>` Solc compiler path to use when compiling with zksolc.
- `--zk-enable-eravm-extensions[=<ENABLE_ERAVM_EXTENSIONS>]` Enable the system contract compilation mode.
- `--zk-force-evmla[=<FORCE_EVMLA>]` Forcibly switch to the EVM legacy assembly pipeline.
- `--zk-llvm-options <LLVM_OPTIONS>` ZkSolc extra LLVM options.
- `--zk-fallback-oz[=<FALLBACK_OZ>]` Try to recompile with -Oz if the bytecode is too large.
- `--zk-detect-missing-libraries` Detect missing libraries, instead of erroring.
- `-O, --zk-optimizer-mode <LEVEL>` Set the LLVM optimization parameter `-O[0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | s | z]`. Use `3` for best performance and `z` for minimal size.
- `--zk-optimizer` Enables optimizations.
- `--zk-avoid-contracts <AVOID_CONTRACTS>` Contracts to avoid compiling on ZKsync.

**Examples:**

Compile with default settings or specify `zksolc` version:

```sh
forge build --zksync
```

### Deployment with `forge create --zksync`

**Command:**

```sh
forge create <CONTRACT> [OPTIONS] --zksync
```

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-information-circle" color="blue"}
The following commands make use of Foundry keystore instead of private keys.
[Learn how to create a keystore](#private-key-setup-with-foundry-keystore).
::

`forge create --zksync` deploys smart contracts to ZKsync.

**Usage:**

```sh
forge create <CONTRACT> [OPTIONS] --rpc-url <RPC-URL> --chain <CHAIN-ID> --account myKeystore --sender <KEYSTORE_ADDRESS> --zksync
```

**Options:**
To get the list of all `create` options run:

```sh
forge create --help
```

**Examples:**
Deploy `Greeter.sol` to %%zk_testnet_name%%:

<details>
<summary>Click to view the `Greeter.sol` contract</summary>

```solidity
//SPDX-License-Identifier: Unlicense
pragma solidity ^0.8.0;

contract Greeter {
    string private greeting;

    constructor(string memory _greeting) {
        greeting = _greeting;
    }

    function greet() public view returns (string memory) {
        return greeting;
    }

    function setGreeting(string memory _greeting) public {
        greeting = _greeting;
    }
}
```

</details>

```bash
forge create src/Greeter.sol:Greeter --constructor-args "Hello ZKsync" --account myKeystore --sender <KEYSTORE_ADDRESS> --rpc-url %%zk_testnet_rpc_url%% --chain %%zk_testnet_chain_id%% --zksync
```

### Deploying Factory Contracts

To deploy contracts like `GreeterFactory.sol`, use the `--system-mode` flag.

<details>
<summary>Click to view the `GreeterFactory.sol` contract</summary>

```solidity
// SPDX-License-Identifier: Unlicense
pragma solidity ^0.8.0;

import "./Greeter.sol";

contract Factory {
    Greeter[] public GreeterArray;

    function CreateNewGreeter(string memory _greeting) public {
        Greeter greeter = new Greeter(_greeting);
        GreeterArray.push(greeter);
    }

    function gfSetter(uint256 _greeterIndex, string memory _greeting) public {
        Greeter(address(GreeterArray[_greeterIndex])).setGreeting(_greeting);
    }

    function gfGetter(uint256 _greeterIndex) public view returns (string memory) {
        return Greeter(address(GreeterArray[_greeterIndex])).greet();
    }
}
```

</details>

**Compile `GreeterFactory.sol`:**

```bash
forge build --system-mode=true --zksync
```

**Deploy `GreeterFactory.sol`:**

```sh
forge create src/GreeterFactory.sol:Factory --factory-deps src/Greeter.sol:Greeter --account myKeystore --sender <KEYSTORE_ADDRESS> --rpc-url %%zk_testnet_rpc_url%% --chain %%zk_testnet_chain_id%% --zksync
```

**Deploy `Greeter.sol` via `GreeterFactory.sol`:**

```sh
cast send <FACTORY_ADDRESS> "CreateNewGreeter(string)" "ZKsync Rules"  --account myKeystore --sender <KEYSTORE_ADDRESS> --rpc-url %%zk_testnet_rpc_url%% --chain %%zk_testnet_chain_id%%
```

**Interact with `Greeter.sol`**

```sh
cast call <CONTRACT_ADDRESS> "greet()(string)" --rpc-url %%zk_testnet_rpc_url%% --chain %%zk_testnet_chain_id%%
```

**Output:**

```sh
0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000020000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000c7a6b53796e632052756c65730000000000000000000000000000000000000000
```

**To decode the output to a readable string:**

```sh
cast to-ascii  0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000020000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000c7a6b53796e632052756c65730000000000000000000000000000000000000000
```

**Output:**

```sh
ZKsync Rules
```

## Basic ZKsync Chain Interactions with `cast`

### Introduction

This guide introduces you to fundamental interactions within the ZKsync chain using `cast`, a component of the `foundry-zksync` toolkit.
Learn how to query chain IDs, retrieve client versions, check L2 ETH balances, obtain gas prices, and more.

**Command:**

```sh
cast <subcommand>
```

### Chain ID Retrieval

- **Local Node:**

  Retrieve the Chain ID for a local ZKsync node with:

  ```sh
  cast chain-id --rpc-url http://localhost:3050
  ```

  Expected Output: `270`, indicating the Chain ID of your local ZKsync node.

- **%%zk_testnet_name%%:**

  For the %%zk_testnet_name%%, use:

  ```sh
  cast chain-id --rpc-url %%zk_testnet_rpc_url%%
  ```

  Expected Output: `%%zk_testnet_chain_id%%`, the Chain ID for the %%zk_testnet_name%%.

### Client Version Information

Knowing the client version is vital for compatibility checks and debugging:

```sh
cast client --rpc-url %%zk_testnet_rpc_url%%
```

Expected Output: `ZKsync/v2.0`, denoting the client version.

### L2 Balance Check

Verify the Layer 2 (L2) balance of an account:

```sh
cast balance 0x8b1d48a69ACEbC6eb201e2F4d162A002203Bfe8E --rpc-url %%zk_testnet_rpc_url%%
```

Expected Output: A numerical value, e.g., `774909739323110932`, representing the account's L2 balance.

### Current Gas Price

Fetch the current gas price on the network for transaction cost estimations:

```sh
cast gas-price --rpc-url %%zk_testnet_rpc_url%%
```

Expected Output: A value such as `100000000`, indicating the current gas price.

### Latest Block Details

Gain insights into the latest block on the ZKsync chain:

```sh
cast block latest --rpc-url %%zk_testnet_rpc_url%%
```

Expected Output: Detailed information about the latest block, including base fee per gas, gas limit, block hash, and more.

### Sending Transactions

Initiate transactions, such as contract function calls, using `cast`:

```sh
cast send <CONTRACT_ADDRESS> <FUNCTION_SIGNATURE> <ARGUMENTS> --rpc-url <RPC-URL> --account myKeystore --sender <KEYSTORE_ADDRESS> --chain <CHAIN-ID>
```

Example:

```sh
cast send 0xe34E488C1B0Fb372Cc4a5d39219261A5a6fc7996 "setGreeting(string)" "Hello, ZKsync!" --rpc-url %%zk_testnet_rpc_url%% --account myKeystore --sender <KEYSTORE_ADDRESS> --chain %%zk_testnet_chain_id%%
```

This command calls the `setGreeting` function of a contract, updating the greeting to "Hello, ZKsync!".

## Support

If you're having an issues creating ZKsync Foundry project, please check out list of issues in `foundry-zksync`
github issues [page](https://github.com/matter-labs/foundry-zksync/issues) or reach out to us by creating a GitHub discussion [here](%%zk_git_repo_zksync-developers%%/discussions/).
