---
title: Differences Between the EVM Emulator and Ethereum
description:
---
::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-triangle" color="amber"}
Given that the EVM Bytecode Emulator runs on top of EraVM, **part** of the limitations and differences detailed on
the [Differences from Ethereum page](../differences/evm-instructions) are inherited.
::

While the EVM Emulator is designed to execute EVM bytecode as closely as possible to Ethereum, there are several differences due
to the underlying **EraVM execution model**.
These differences affect gas accounting, opcodes support, system behavior, and contract deployment.

This page outlines the key differences between the **EVM Emulator on ZKsync** and **Ethereum (Cancun)**.

## Gas behavior differences

- EVM emulation is executed on top of EraVM and all transactions start in EraVM environment. So gas and gaslimit values signed in the transaction correspond to the native **EraVM** gas, not **EVM** gas. For that reason presigned/keyless transactions created for Ethereum may be not compatible with ZK Chains. For detailed info: [Gas emulation](./evm-gas-emulation).
- “Intrinsic gas costs” are different from EVM.
- EVM emulation does not implement the gas refunds logic from **EVM**. Because users pay for EraVM gas and EVM gas is virtual, EraVM gas refunds logic is used instead of EVM one. It does not affect contracts behavior (refunds happen in the end of transaction).
- EVM gas isn't charged for tx calldata.
- Access lists are not supported (EIP-2930).

## Limitations

- `DELEGATECALL` between EVM and native EraVM contracts will be reverted.
- Calls to empty addresses in kernel space (address < 2^16) will fail.
- `GASLIMIT` opcode returns the same fixed constant as EraVM and should not be used.

The following opcodes remain unsupported due to underlying limitations of EraVM:

- `CALLCODE`
- `SELFDESTRUCT`
- `BLOBHASH`
- `BLOBBASEFEE`

## Precompiles

Some precompiles like `RIPEMD-160` and `blake2f` are not supported in the EVM
emulator as they're not supported in EraVM.

Check [the list of available precompiles](../differences/pre-compiles)

## Technical differences

_These changes are unlikely to have an impact on the developer experience._

Differences:

- `JUMPDEST` analysis is simplified. It is not checked that `JUMPDEST` is not a part of `PUSH` instruction.
- No force of call stack depth limit. It is implicitly implemented by 63/64 gas rule.
- Account storage is not destroyed during contract deployment.
- If the deployer's nonce is overflowed during contract deployment, all passed gas will be consumed. EVM refunds all passed gas to the caller frame.
- Nonces are limited by size of `u128`, not `u64`.
- During creation of EVM contract by EOA or EraVM contract, emulator does not charge additional `2` gas for every 32-byte chunk of `initcode` as specified in [EIP-3860](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-3860) (since perform `JUMPDEST` analysis is simplified). This cost **is** charged if contract is created by another EVM contract (to keep gas equivalence).
- Code deposit cost is charged from constructor frame, not caller frame. It will be changed in the future.
- Only those accounts that are accessed from an EVM environment become warm (including origin, sender, coinbase, precompiles). Anything that happens outside the EVM does not affect the warm/cold status of accounts for EVM.

## Next Steps

- Explore the **[technical architecture of the EVM Emulator](./technical-details)** for a deeper understanding of its implementation.
- Read about **[EraVM ↔ EVM contract interactions](./era-evm-interactions)**.
- Check how **[EVM gas emulation](./evm-gas-emulation)** works.
- See the **[list of Pre-Deployed contracts](./pre-deployed-contracts)**.
