---
title: Troubleshooting
description: Get help with issues related to zksync-cli.
---

Encountering issues with ZKsync CLI? Here are some common problems and step-by-step recommendations for resolving them:

## `command not found: zksync-cli`

If you try to use the `zksync-cli` command and receive the `command not found` message, double check if you
have the package installed locally or were using the `npx zksync-cli` command.

---

## `unknown command` Error

If you encounter an `unknown command` error, follow these steps:

a. **Check the ZKsync CLI Version**

- Run `zksync-cli --version` to check your current version.
- Compare it with the latest version available on [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/zksync-cli).
- If your version is lower than the one on npm, follow the steps below.
If your version is up-to-date, it's possible that the command was moved or renamed.
Use `zksync-cli help` for a list of current commands or refer to the documentation.

b. **Verify Local Installation**

- Use `npm list zksync-cli` to check if `zksync-cli` is installed in the current directory or any parent directories from where you are running your terminal.
- If it is indeed installed, make sure to uninstall it by running `npm uninstall zksync-cli` in its installation location.
Remove all instances of `zksync-cli` until none are found by `npm list zksync-cli`.

c. **Verify Global Installation**

- Use `npm list -g zksync-cli` to check if `zksync-cli` is installed globally.
- If it is installed globally, uninstall it using `npm uninstall -g zksync-cli`.

d. **Clean npm Cache**

- Run `npm cache clean --force`.

e. **Use the Latest Version**

- As a quick fix, or if the above steps don't resolve the issue, use `npx zksync-cli@latest [command]`, for example, `npx zksync-cli@latest dev start`.

---

## My version is outdated

If `zksync-cli` is not running the latest version:

- Refer to the [instructions for `unknown command` Error](/build/zksync-cli/troubleshooting#unknown-command-error)
above to check and update your ZKsync CLI version.

---

## `command not found: npx` Error

If you receive a `command not found: npx` error, it means Node.js is not installed or not correctly set up on your system:

- Install Node.js from [the official website](https://nodejs.org/). This will also install `npm` and `npx`.
- After installation, restart your terminal and try running `npx zksync-cli` again.

---

## Other issues

For all other issues, we encourage you to seek help or report them in our [GitHub Discussions](%%zk_git_repo_zksync-developers%%/discussions/new?category=general&title=[zksync-cli]%20<Title>).
