---
title: Troubleshooting
description: Get help with issues related to zksync-cli.
---

Encountering issues with ZKsync CLI?
Here are some common problems and step-by-step recommendations for resolving them:

## `command not found: zksync-cli`

If you try to use the `zksync-cli` command and receive the `command not found` message,
check to see if you have the package installed on your machine.

The following command will list the package and version if you have `zksync-cli` installed globally.

```sh
npm list -g zksync-cli
```

---

## `unknown command` Error

If you encounter an `unknown command` error, follow these steps:

a. **Check the ZKsync CLI version**

- Run `zksync-cli --version` to check your current version.
- Compare it with the latest version available on [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/zksync-cli).
- If your version is lower than the one on npm, follow the steps under [Update ZKsync CLI](/build/zksync-cli#update-zksync-cli) on Getting Started.

If your version is up-to-date, it's possible that the command was moved or renamed.
Use `zksync-cli help` for a list of current commands or refer to the documentation.

b. **Remove local installations**

- Use `npm list zksync-cli` to check if `zksync-cli` is installed in the current directory or any parent directories from where you are running your terminal.
- If it is installed, uninstall it by running `npm uninstall zksync-cli` in its installation location.

Remove all instances of locally installed `zksync-cli` packages until none are found by `npm list zksync-cli`.

c. **Verify global installation**

- Use `npm list -g zksync-cli` to check if `zksync-cli` is installed globally.

d. **Clean npm Cache**

- Run `npm cache clean --force`.

---

## My version is outdated

If `zksync-cli` is not running the latest version:

- Refer to the [instructions for `unknown command` Error](/build/zksync-cli/troubleshooting#unknown-command-error)
above to check and update your ZKsync CLI version.

---

## Other issues

For all other issues, we encourage you to seek help or report them in our
[GitHub Discussions](%%zk_git_repo_zksync-developers%%/discussions/new?category=general&title=[zksync-cli]%20<Title>).
