---
title: Getting started
description: Learn to build and deploy smart contracts on ZKsync Era.
---

Welcome to ZKsync 101 for deploying smart contracts on ZKsync!
In this guide, we'll walk you through the process of creating and deploying a simple smart contract that creates a crowdfunding campaign for Zeek.

By the end of the series, you will learn integral pieces that will
help you become a great developer on ZKsync! You will learn how to:

:check-icon Initialize a new project with ZKsync CLI.

:check-icon Deploy contracts on ZKsync Era using Hardhat or Foundry.

:check-icon Test your contracts with Hardhat or Foundry.

:check-icon Implement upgradable patterns for your contracts.

:check-icon Implement a Paymaster to simplify transactions for your users.

---

## Install zksync-cli

Our Quickstart series utilizes ZKsync CLI to help you develop and interact with ZKsync from your local machine.
We will use the full features of ZKsync CLI to build and deploy contracts in a local ZKsync Era test node.
Follow the instructions to install all dependencies including the optional dependencies
and install ZKsync CLI globally on the [Getting started](/build/zksync-cli) page.

### Setup local node

This series of guides will use ZKsync Era test node which allows for quicker testing and debugging processes.
A great benefit of using a local test node is that you will avoid incurring any actual transaction costs.
ZKsync Era test node provides a set of rich wallets that come with more than enough ETH to use for development.

#### Run a local in memory node

Once you've followed all of the instructions on [Getting started](/build/zksync-cli) to setup ZKsync CLI on your machine,
check and ensure that Docker is running. The easiest way to start Docker is to open the Docker Desktop app.

We are going to use the "In memory node" module for our local node setup.

Run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
zksync-cli dev config
```

It will provide a list of available node types you can run locally.

Use the arrow keys to navigate to "In memory node" and press **Enter** to select.
The next question will ask what additional modules you want to use.
Make sure additional modules are unselected for this setup and press **Enter** to finish the configuration.

The In memory node module will run a lighter version of the ZKsync Era node
which is ideal for swift testing, prototyping, and bootloader and system contract testing.

Run the following command in your terminal to start up the node:

```bash
zksync-cli dev start
```

The local era node will also include pre-configured rich wallets for use, visit [era-test-node rich wallets](/build/test-and-debug/in-memory-node#pre-configured-rich-wallets).

Your local ZKsync Era node is accessible at **[http://127.0.0.1:8011](http://127.0.0.1:8011/)**, ready for deployment or testing purposes.
You can use the Docker Desktop app to view logs from the running ZKsync Era node or use the `zksync-cli dev logs` command.
When you are done running your local ZKsync Era node, you can stop it with `zksync-cli dev stop`.
You can learn more about managing a local node with ZKsync CLI on [Running a node](/build/zksync-cli/running-a-node).

---

## Choose Hardhat or Foundry

Our Quickstart series provides two options for your learning process using
either Hardhat or Foundry. Pick one to use and stick with as you go through
each of the guides.

<!-- Create a component that sets which tool they use and pre-set the tabs -->

### Install foundry-zksync

If you choose to use Foundry for the Quick Start series, you will need to
install the `foundry-zksync` tool. This tool is a specialized fork of Foundry, tailored for ZKsync.
It extends Foundry's capabilities for Ethereum app development to support ZKsync,
allowing for the compilation, deployment, testing, and interaction with smart contracts on ZKsync.

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-information-circle-16-solid" color="amber"}
`foundry-zksync` is still in an alpha stage, so some features might not be fully supported
yet and may not work as fully intended. It is open-sourced and contributions are welcome.
::

Quickly set up `foundry-zksync` by following these steps:

1. **Clone the Repository**:
   Download the latest version from GitHub:

   ```bash
   git clone git@github.com:matter-labs/foundry-zksync.git
   cd foundry-zksync
   ```

2. **Run the Installer**:
   Execute the script to install the `foundry-zksync` binaries `forge` and `cast`:

   ```bash
   ./install-foundry-zksync
   ```

### Private key setup with Foundry keystore

:display-partial{ path="_partials/_foundry-create-keystore" }

---

## Next Steps

You should now have a fully working local environment to build new projects on ZKsync!

- Continue to [Hello ZKsync!](/build/start-coding/zksync-101/hello-zksync) to begin the series on building a crowdfunding campaign for Zeek.
- This setup provides you everything you need to build in ZKsync.
- You can skip on to [creating your own projects using ZKsync CLI](/build/zksync-cli/creating-projects).
