---
title: Overview
description: An introduction to the zksync2-python and its features.
tags: ["zksync", "python", "sdk", "overview"]
links:
  - label: GitHub
    to: https://github.com/zksync-sdk/zksync2-python
    icon: simple-icons:github
    target: _blank
---

The ZKsync Python SDK is a powerful tool designed to facilitate interaction with the ZKsync Layer-2 scaling solution
on the Ethereum blockchain. Leveraging zero-knowledge proofs, ZKsync provides efficient, low-cost transactions while
ensuring security and scalability. This SDK makes it easier for developers to integrate and utilize ZKsync's advanced
features in their applications.

## Concept

Most existing SDKs work right away, but deploying smart contracts or using unique ZKsync features, like account
abstraction, needs extra fields that Ethereum transactions don't have by default.

To make it easy to use all ZKsync Era features, we created the `zksync2-python` Python SDK. This SDK has an interface similar
to [web3.py](https://web3py.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html). In fact, `web3.py` is a peer dependency of our
library. Most objects exported by `zksync2` inherit from `web3.py` objects and only change the fields that need adjustments.

## Key features

- **Transaction management**: Easily create, sign, and send transactions on the ZKsync network.
- **Account operations**: Manage accounts, including creating, funding, and querying balances.
- **Token support**: Support for multiple tokens, enabling transfers and swaps.
- **Contract interaction**: Interact with smart contracts deployed on ZKsync.
- **Batch transactions**: Bundle multiple transactions to reduce costs and improve efficiency.
- **Security**: Leverage zero-knowledge proofs for enhanced security and privacy.
- **Scalability**: Benefit from the scalability improvements provided by the ZKsync Layer-2 solution.

### Additional resources

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
To use the `zksync2-python`, visit the [Getting Started](/python/guides) page.
::
