---
title: Testing
description: Discover how to effectively test smart contracts on zkSync Era ecosystem.
---

Welcome back to our Quickstart Series, your fast-track to zkSync development! In this
third guide, we transition from deploying and managing contracts to the critical phase
of testing. This guide will walk you through the steps to ensure your `CrowdfundingCampaign`
contracts, introduced in our first guide and efficiently deployed through contract factories
in the second, work flawlessly.

:check-icon Elevate your zkSync toolkit with robust contract testing techniques.

:check-icon Craft comprehensive tests for your `CrowdfundingCampaign` to ensure reliability and security.

:check-icon Use Hardhat or Foundry to write and run tests, ensuring your campaigns are ready.

Dive into the world of smart contract testing and solidify the foundation of your zkSync projects.

## Setup the project

::content-switcher
---
items: [{
  label: 'Hardhat',
  partial: '_testing/_hardhat_contract_testing'
}, {
  label: 'Foundry',
  partial: '_testing/_foundry_contract_testing'
}]
---
::

## Takeaways

- **Testing**: Understanding contract testing is important for ensuring the reliability and security of your smart contracts
on zkSync. Proper testing safeguards against unforeseen errors and vulnerabilities.
- **Comprehensive Coverage**: Achieving comprehensive test coverage, including both positive and negative testing
scenarios, is essential for a robust smart contract. This guide emphasized the `contribute` method,
but testing should encompass all aspects of your contract.
- **Tooling Efficiency**: Leveraging Hardhat or Foundry for testing provides a streamlined and efficient workflow.
These tools offer powerful features and plugins, like `@nomicfoundation/hardhat-chai-matchers`,
that enhance the testing process.

## Next Steps

With a solid foundation in contract testing, you're well-equipped to advance your zkSync
development journey. Consider the following steps to further your expertise:

- **Upgradeability**: Dive into the [Upgradeability article](/build/quick-start/upgrading) focusing on contract upgradeability.
Learning to make your contracts upgradeable will enable you to update and improve your smart contracts
over time without losing state or funds.
- **Advanced zkSync Integrations:** Explore deeper into zkSync's ecosystem by
implementing features like account abstraction and paymasters to enhance user
experience and contract flexibility.
- **Community Engagement and Contribution:** Join the vibrant zkSync community.
Participate in forums, Discord, or GitHub discussions. Sharing insights, asking queries,
and contributing can enrich the ecosystem and your understanding of zkSync.
